Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button PlayPause Video does not contain audio WPI Achieves R1 Research Status Universitys research earns highest classification Learn More Explore WPI's Expert Database Offering valuable insight on relevant topics Meet our experts Transfer Scholarship Announced New award for students admitted from partner institutions Learn More A Degree That Matters At WPI, you'll use your unmatched college experience  built around STEM, business, global engagement, and the humanities  to work in teams here at home and around the world to create solutions to problems faced by real people. Explore the possibilities with more than 70 undergraduate and graduate degree programs across four schools: Engineering , Arts  Sciences , Business, and Global. FIND A DEGREE PROGRAM: BACHELOR'S MASTER'S PHD Latest News Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More News WPI Researchers Turn Up the Heat on PFAS with Novel Removal Process February 19, 2025 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  07:53 Your browser does not support the audio element. The Month in Photos: January 2025 February 18, 2025 WPI Researchers to Develop Robotic Arm for Wheelchairs February 18, 2025 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  04:53 Your browser does not support the audio element. Students Share Global Projects at Presidents IQP Award Final Presentations February 13, 2025 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  10:00 Your browser does not support the audio element. Real Projects. Real Experience. Real Impact. At WPI, youll engage in handson collaborative projects from day one. PROJECTBASED LEARNING VARSITY ATHLETICS Pursue Your Passion Robbie Oleynick 24 integrates tech with music in the theatre FUSE TECH WITH MUSIC Innovation  Entrepreneurship Freedom to innovate, the tools to create, and the support to make it happen INNOVATION  ENTREPRENEURSHIP AT WPI Find Your Niche CLUBS  ORGANIZATIONS Sustainability On our campus, in our community, and around the world FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY New Ground, Broken Those featured in the Winter 2025 WPI Journal are using technology to break new ground in a variety of industries. Morgan Stanton, PhD 14, has created a Uterus in a Dish to provide the biological material needed to accelerate the development of gynecological treatments; two groups of alumni are using AI in industries not known to embrace technology ; and Assistant Professor Jagannath Jayachandran and his team are challenging commonly held beliefs about why things burn and explode. In addition, read about PhD student Lydia Ellen TonaniPenha s quest to extract water from the surface of Mars; how cider donut connoisseur Alex Schwartz 09 follows a generalist path; the origins of common tech terms according to Assistant Teaching Professor Erica Brozovsky ; and why Associate Professor Elizabeth Long Lingo has a bicycle wheel in her office. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right More from the University Magazine Upcoming Events Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Events Mar 20 IQP Opportunities Fair  On campus projects Clock Icon of clock 11:30 am to 1:00 pm  Rubin Campus Center Sophomores looking for an on campus IQP for next year should attend. May 14 2025 ROTC Commissioning Ceremony Clock Icon of clock 4:30 pm to 5:30 pm  Alden Memorial May 15 2025 Graduate Commencement Ceremony Clock Icon of clock 5:00 pm to 7:00 pm May 16 2025 Undergraduate Commencement Ceremony Clock Icon of clock 2:00 pm to 5:00 pm PBL in Higher Education Students begin preparing for life after graduation the moment they step on campus in their first year. Their time as undergraduates is just as valuable as it is limited, and its the responsibility of higher education institutions to prepare them for a successful future, both professionally and personally. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Projectbased Learning Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up PBL in Higher Education The goal is clear, but the question remains: Whats the most effective method of delivering a meaningful education to students? How can colleges and universities ensure that their students are ready for life after graduation, to tackle new challenges, passions, and problems? Research suggests that active learning in higher education, as well as repeated exposure to highimpact practices such as projectbased learning, is the answer. While its been proven that PBL in higher education is an effective method of preparing students for life after graduation , beginning the process of its implementationpotentially even revamping an entire curriculummay be overwhelming. Where do you start? How do you start? How does teaching in higher education need to change? Maybe most important, what difference will it make? WPIs Center for ProjectBased Learning (CPBL) offers a wealth of projectbased learning resources and expertise to help make this pedagogy a reality in academic institutions around the world. Projectbased Learning, Explained What is projectbased learning? Why is it important? How does it differ from traditional learning? These and other important questions will be answered through this PBL explainer. Benefits of Projectbased Learning In a curriculum built around project work, studentsguided, rather than directed, by facultytake responsibility for their own learning by tackling real, tangible problems through openended projects. This form of active learning in higher education leads students to develop key skills and abilitiescollaboration, communication, problem solving, confidence, leadership, and morethat will prove invaluable professionally and personally. Is Projectbased Learning Effective? PBL in higher education involves changing the traditional academic roles that students and faculty may be used to, taking them out of their comfort zones in some cases. Such changes are not easy, but decades of research have shown that PBL and other highimpact practices result in greater student learning gains than traditional teaching in higher education, particularly for students in underrepresented groups. Why Does Projectbased Learning Matter? More than ever, higher education needs to prepare students not just for their first jobs, but for lives and careers that, much like openended projects, are difficult to predict. Students who have experienced active learning in higher education through PBL are primed to take the skills theyve learned through project work and transfer them seamlessly to their professional lives. Thanks to these highimpact practices, students not only graduate with confidence and a sense of purpose, but are fully prepared for anything the world throws at them. Projectbased Learning in Higher Ed FAQs Learn more about some of the most frequently asked questions about PBL in higher education to help determine if it is a good fit for your institution. For more information about PBL, subscribe to our quarterly AdvancePBL newsletter . ProjectBased Learning Newsletter Issued quarterly, the AdvancePBL newsletter shares and promotes PBL ideas, practices and findings. View past issues of the newsletter for a wealth of PBL resources and stories. SUBSCRIBE NOW Sharing PBL Expertise Around the World Drawing on over 50 years of experience, WPIs Center for ProjectBased Learning has been changing the face of teaching PBL in higher education since 2016, helping other institutions implement facets of PBL on their own campuses through workshops, consultations, resources, and its flagship Institute on ProjectBased Learning . WPIs 2025 Institute on ProjectBased Learning will be held June 36. Applications Accepted Through February 15 . Apply as a team or as an individual . Ready to Transform Higher Education? Delving Deep into HighImpact Practices The best way for others to learn about PBL is the same way students do: by experiencing these highimpact practices firsthand. In 2019, the Chronicle of Higher Education attended WPIs annual Institute on ProjectBased Learning, resulting in an exclusive feature story in the Chronicles Teaching newsletter that spotlighted WPIs expertise in PBL, and its critical role in active learning in higher education. From our PBL Resource Library Developed in partnership with the Chronicle of Higher Education, WPIs complementary threepart webinar series, ProjectBased Learning (PBL) as a Vehicle for HighImpact Practices , gives participants the chance to hear from experts on their successes and challenges teaching in higher education when reinventing their courses, programs, and institutions through projectbased learning. UMBC shares impact from the Institute on ProjectBased Learning Bringing PBL to Life on Your Campus Tangible plans, collaborative research methods, reinvented student interactionstheyre all examples of participant takeaways from their time at WPIs Institute on ProjectBased Learning. Start picturing the benefits of projectbased learningand implementingwhat PBL will look like on your campus today. Hear from Institute participants . Delving Deep into HighImpact Practices The best way for others to learn about PBL is the same way students do: by experiencing these highimpact practices firsthand. In 2019, the Chronicle of Higher Education attended WPIs annual Institute on ProjectBased Learning, resulting in an exclusive feature story in the Chronicles Teaching newsletter that spotlighted WPIs expertise in PBL, and its critical role in active learning in higher education. From our PBL Resource Library Developed in partnership with the Chronicle of Higher Education, WPIs complementary threepart webinar series, ProjectBased Learning (PBL) as a Vehicle for HighImpact Practices , gives participants the chance to hear from experts on their successes and challenges teaching in higher education when reinventing their courses, programs, and institutions through projectbased learning. UMBC shares impact from the Institute on ProjectBased Learning Bringing PBL to Life on Your Campus Tangible plans, collaborative research methods, reinvented student interactionstheyre all examples of participant takeaways from their time at WPIs Institute on ProjectBased Learning. Start picturing the benefits of projectbased learningand implementingwhat PBL will look like on your campus today. Hear from Institute participants . Delving Deep into HighImpact Practices The best way for others to learn about PBL is the same way students do: by experiencing these highimpact practices firsthand. In 2019, the Chronicle of Higher Education attended WPIs annual Institute on ProjectBased Learning, resulting in an exclusive feature story in the Chronicles Teaching newsletter that spotlighted WPIs expertise in PBL, and its critical role in active learning in higher education. Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote What were really talking about is the ability to reimagine the systems of higher education in your own institution and thats exciting. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Arnold Robinson, Director of Community Partnership Center Roger Williams University Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote WPIs Institute on ProjectBased Learning provided a view of higher education that is very much needed. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Andy Borchers, Professor of Management Lipscomb University Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote The twoday projectbased learning workshop delivered by WPI on our campus was an important catalyst for discussions, collaborations, and forward motion for our college. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Laura Hahn, Director of Academy for Excellence in Engineering Education University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote What were really talking about is the ability to reimagine the systems of higher education in your own institution and thats exciting. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Arnold Robinson, Director of Community Partnership Center Roger Williams University Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote WPIs Institute on ProjectBased Learning provided a view of higher education that is very much needed. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Andy Borchers, Professor of Management Lipscomb University Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote The twoday projectbased learning workshop delivered by WPI on our campus was an important catalyst for discussions, collaborations, and forward motion for our college. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Laura Hahn, Director of Academy for Excellence in Engineering Education University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote What were really talking about is the ability to reimagine the systems of higher education in your own institution and thats exciting. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Arnold Robinson, Director of Community Partnership Center Roger Williams University Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Announcements Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Announcements Kris Wobbe Appointed to ThreeYear Term as Fulbright Specialist February 27, 2025 Projectbased Learning Five Students Receive Prestigious Benjamin A. Gilman Scholarship February 06, 2025 Marketing Communications PBL Winter 2025 Newsletter Now Available January 03, 2025 Projectbased Learning Finalists for 2024 President's IQP Awards December 11, 2024 The Global School Lifelong Impact of PBL Projectbased Education at WPI School of Engineering Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Theory. Practice. Impact. At WPI, students are involved in engineering projects and research from the very beginning. Our pioneering projectbased learning approach means our undergraduate and graduate students learn in the classroom and then can immediately apply their skills to solve realworld problems. Students work alongside our worldrenowned faculty, many of whom bring invaluable industry experience to their work. WPI graduates become proficient and agile engineers able to adapt to a constantly changing global environment. Theyre prepared to collaborate with peers across disciplinesfrom engineering to the arts and sciences to businessto develop innovative and effective solutions to the worlds most pressing challenges. This groundbreaking approach establishes a foundation for career success and life satisfaction. Lifelong Impact of Projects Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Academics Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up School of Engineering Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Departments  Programs Faculty  Staff Research Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Facilities Resources Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Advisory Board ABET Accreditation Available Degrees 2024 ASEE Annual Conference News Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More News WPI Researchers Turn Up the Heat on PFAS with Novel Removal Process February 19, 2025 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  07:53 Your browser does not support the audio element. WPI Researchers to Develop Robotic Arm for Wheelchairs February 18, 2025 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  04:53 Your browser does not support the audio element. Robert Hyers Is Named a Fellow of Minerals, Metals, and Materials Society November 25, 2024 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  02:27 Your browser does not support the audio element. Jamal Yagoobi Leads Project Using Light to Improve Drying Technologies November 20, 2024 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  08:37 Your browser does not support the audio element. Education The School of Engineering gives students opportunities to solve realworld problems through teambased projects, immersive research experiences, rigorous independent study, and close studentfaculty mentorship. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Engineering Departments and Programs Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right WPI Plan Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Grand Challenges Scholars Program Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Network of Global Project Centers Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Got Potholes? This Student Team Has a Solution Research Our wellfunded research projects showcase the breadth and depth of the engineering advances at WPI. A researchwithpurpose mindset across the university applies many perspectives and collaborations to meet the biggest challenges we face. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Interdisciplinary Groups Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Metal Processing Institute Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right PracticePoint Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Center for Wireless Information Network Studies Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Center for Advanced Research in Drying Alumni  Students With a devotion to lifelong learning and a commitment to make the planet better, WPIs students and alumni produce boundarypushing results with the widest impact. They approach their work with a careful balance of improving technology and humanity. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Jessica Rosewitz '07 (BS), '16 (MS), '20 (PhD) Civil Engineering Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Stephen Rusckowski 79 Mechanical Engineering Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Yatao Liu 08, PhD Chemical Engineering Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Leila Carvajal Erker 96 Chemical Engineering Chemical Engineers: Why Not Make Waste Work for Us? Two WPI chemical engineering research projects investigating sustainability and waste reduction received nearly 540,000 stemming from the National Science Foundations (NSF) 2026 Idea Machine competition. The work will explore finding applications for nitrogenrich waste products and converting marine plastics into ship fuel. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn more Researchers Expanding Development of Oxygen Sensor for Babies to also Monitor COVID19 Patients An interdisciplinary group of researchers at WPI is expanding its previous work to develop a small wireless mobile sensor that will measure a babys blood oxygen levels to also create a similar sensor that can act as early detection device for COVID19 infections. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn more Researcher Leads 2.4 Million Project to Manufacture LowCost, FastCharging Lithium Ion Car Batteries WPI will lead a team of industry and university researchers in a 2.4 million project to manufacture cheaper, fastercharging lithium ion car batteries. The researchers will reduce the cost and charging time of lithium ion car batteries by building on previous research to manufacture battery electrodes with a solventfree approach. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn more Chemical Engineers: Why Not Make Waste Work for Us? Two WPI chemical engineering research projects investigating sustainability and waste reduction received nearly 540,000 stemming from the National Science Foundations (NSF) 2026 Idea Machine competition. The work will explore finding applications for nitrogenrich waste products and converting marine plastics into ship fuel. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn more Researchers Expanding Development of Oxygen Sensor for Babies to also Monitor COVID19 Patients An interdisciplinary group of researchers at WPI is expanding its previous work to develop a small wireless mobile sensor that will measure a babys blood oxygen levels to also create a similar sensor that can act as early detection device for COVID19 infections. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn more Researcher Leads 2.4 Million Project to Manufacture LowCost, FastCharging Lithium Ion Car Batteries WPI will lead a team of industry and university researchers in a 2.4 million project to manufacture cheaper, fastercharging lithium ion car batteries. The researchers will reduce the cost and charging time of lithium ion car batteries by building on previous research to manufacture battery electrodes with a solventfree approach. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn more Chemical Engineers: Why Not Make Waste Work for Us? Two WPI chemical engineering research projects investigating sustainability and waste reduction received nearly 540,000 stemming from the National Science Foundations (NSF) 2026 Idea Machine competition. The work will explore finding applications for nitrogenrich waste products and converting marine plastics into ship fuel. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn more Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Meet Our Students Tessa Lytle '23 BSMS Mechanical Engineering Tessas college career, both on and off the skating rink, has provided her many opportunities to get involved and make an impact. ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Gabriel Espinosa '24 BS in Mechanical Engineering Gabriel works to pursue his passion for sustainability and engineering through WPIs clubs and handson learning experiences. ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Tessa Lytle '23 BSMS Mechanical Engineering Tessas college career, both on and off the skating rink, has provided her many opportunities to get involved and make an impact. ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Gabriel Espinosa '24 BS in Mechanical Engineering Gabriel works to pursue his passion for sustainability and engineering through WPIs clubs and handson learning experiences. ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Tessa Lytle '23 BSMS Mechanical Engineering Tessas college career, both on and off the skating rink, has provided her many opportunities to get involved and make an impact. ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right WPI Journal Stories from the School of Engineering Field Work in Sustainability Don Seville 92 uses systems thinking to improve farming and food. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read more in the WPI Journal Student Impact Martin Thulani Milanzi '24 Milanzi Brings STEM to Refugees in Zambia Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more in the WPI journal Sensing the Living Breath Electrical engineer Ulkuhan Guler has an ambitious goal: creating a small, smart, skin patch that collects critical measures of respiration. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read more in the WPI Journal Field Work in Sustainability Don Seville 92 uses systems thinking to improve farming and food. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read more in the WPI Journal Student Impact Martin Thulani Milanzi '24 Milanzi Brings STEM to Refugees in Zambia Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more in the WPI journal Sensing the Living Breath Electrical engineer Ulkuhan Guler has an ambitious goal: creating a small, smart, skin patch that collects critical measures of respiration. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read more in the WPI Journal Field Work in Sustainability Don Seville 92 uses systems thinking to improve farming and food. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read more in the WPI Journal Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right 15 career outcomes PoetsQuants (2022) 70M in research expenditures (FY 2024) 2024 Top 15 best colleges for engineering in America Niche (2025) Spotlight on Engineering Research scientist Christopher Nycz and the team at PracticePoint uncovered a need in the market for a space where engineers could better access clinical spaces. Corporate partners are welcome to integrate their industry knowhow and WPIs academic expertise to create new productsand accelerate those products to market. Patrick Schaumont, professor of electrical and computer engineering, is an expert in hardware security. As part of the Vernam Lab, where several key experts are working on various perspectives of secure system design, he aims to develop designs and prototypes and methods and tools. Partnering with WPI experts in this field can help industry collaborators transfer their own ideas into viable products. Discover how Yihao Zheng, assistant professor of mechanical engineering, is using applied science, engineering, and technology to advance manufacturing in the healthcare industry. James Urban, assistant professor in fire protection engineering, researches advances in wildland fire, visualbased fire protection, and fundamental fire phenomenon. His team is especially skilled at finding lowcost ways to measure fire and provide collaborators access to stateoftheart fire labs, easily allowing for multiscale experiments. Research scientist Christopher Nycz and the team at PracticePoint uncovered a need in the market for a space where engineers could better access clinical spaces. Corporate partners are welcome to integrate their industry knowhow and WPIs academic expertise to create new productsand accelerate those products to market. Patrick Schaumont, professor of electrical and computer engineering, is an expert in hardware security. As part of the Vernam Lab, where several key experts are working on various perspectives of secure system design, he aims to develop designs and prototypes and methods and tools. Partnering with WPI experts in this field can help industry collaborators transfer their own ideas into viable products. Discover how Yihao Zheng, assistant professor of mechanical engineering, is using applied science, engineering, and technology to advance manufacturing in the healthcare industry. James Urban, assistant professor in fire protection engineering, researches advances in wildland fire, visualbased fire protection, and fundamental fire phenomenon. His team is especially skilled at finding lowcost ways to measure fire and provide collaborators access to stateoftheart fire labs, easily allowing for multiscale experiments. Research scientist Christopher Nycz and the team at PracticePoint uncovered a need in the market for a space where engineers could better access clinical spaces. Corporate partners are welcome to integrate their industry knowhow and WPIs academic expertise to create new productsand accelerate those products to market. Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Media Coverage Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Media Coverage WBUR 90.9 A look inside a lab studying fire in Worcester WPIs wildfire research is featured in The Common , a podcast from WBUR, Boston's NPR. Listen to the interview with Albert Simeoni, head of the Department of Fire Protection Engineering  a former firefighter  and see photos on the podcast's website to learn more about what drives the research of faculty and students, their work that seeks to mitigate the impacts of large wildfires, and the experiments taking place in the department's laboratories. Smart Water Magazine New approach to remove forever chemicals from wastewater and reduce carbon footprint of plants Chemical engineering professor Michael Timko leads a team that has developed a novel process to remove harmful PFAS chemicals from sewage sludge during wastewater treatment. The process offers an additional benefit: it could also generate renewable fuel. Researchers hope the process will help address the PFAS problem and allow wastewater treatment facilities to reduce their use of energy and chemical additives for sludge disposal, Recycling International Innovate battery recycling by collaboration Recycling International reported on research published in Nature Reviews Clean Technology by researchers in the Department of Mechanical and Materials Engineering. The paper explores the need for more efficient recycling processes for lithiumion batteries, the opportunities presented by a closedloop recycling strategy, and the challenges to implementing new processes. Authors on the research paper include Yan Wang, the William B. Smith Professor of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, and PhD student Zifei Meng. Additional Publications: The Engineer The New York Times How Wildfires Came for City Streets For its coverage of the Los Angeles area wildfires, T he New York Times interviewed Albert Simeoni, professor and head of the Department of Fire Protection Engineering, about how the wildland fires in Southern California transformed into urban fires, leading to extensive loss of life and destruction of property. The department of fire protection engineering conducts extensive research on wildfires aimed at improving the prevention of and response to fires in the future. Announcements Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Announcements Engineering Spring Newsletter 2025 February 27, 2025 School of Engineering Whats The Story?" Personal, Professional, and Institutional Transformation  Joe Tranquillo February 19, 2025 School of Engineering Cosme Furlong Is Inducted as Fellow of SEM January 06, 2025 Marketing Communications Engineering Winter Newsletter 2024 December 10, 2024 School of Engineering Watch Live Stream of WPI Christmas Tree Burn Demonstration December 04, 2024 Marketing Communications NSF Awards 259,570 to Christina BaileyHytholt to Develop New Models to Study Preeclampsia November 13, 2024 Marketing Communications Four Schools. One WPI. School of Arts  Sciences The Business School School of Engineering The Global School Areas of Research WPI Achieves R1 Status Highest classification for a research university Learn more Interdisciplinary. Translational. Powerful. At WPI, researchers are innovators and educators who are working on solutions to the worlds great problems. Purposedriven research at WPI focuses on three key areas that highlight the technical and societal intersections of these global challenges: Smart technologies changing the way we live and work Materials and manufacturing processes designed for a more sustainable world Life sciences and biotechnology Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Research Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Areas of Research Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down AI, Data, and Robotics Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Artificial Intelligence Advanced Sustainable Materials  Manufacturing Life Sciences  Biotechnology Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Biomanufacturing for Sustainability Research by Department Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Central Massachusetts ClimaTech Hub Artificial Intelligence, Data, and Robotics From computer chips to robots, WPI researchers are showing how humans can work smarter, faster, and safer as technology evolves rapidly. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right LEARN MORE Advanced Sustainable Materials and Manufacturing WPI leads in research that moves beyond steel and alloys toward advanced concrete, sustainable water, new energy sources, and more. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right SEE EXAMPLES Life Sciences and Biotechnology Research in Life Sciences and Biotechnology at WPI stands at the intersection of the life sciences, the physical and computer sciences, and engineering. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right MORE INFO Research at WPI Concrete Solutions Concrete is everywhere, and its production and deterioration contribute to global carbon dioxide production and waste. Associate Professor Nima Rahbar is working on solutions to make concrete more durable and sustainable. OffRoad Autonomous Vehicles Professor Vladimir Vantsevich and Professor of Practice Lee Moradi are taking autonomous vehicle technology off road to develop rugged systems capable of rolling across farms, construction sites, disaster zones, military theaters, and even other planets. Nurses and Robots Amid a national shortage of nursing professionals, Assistant Professor Jane Li is leading development of a userfriendly robot that could help nurses care for patients in health care facilities in the US and other countries. Mysteries of Cell Division How does one cell divide into two? Associate Professor Amity Manning is uncovering that process in her lab, making discoveries with implications for diseases such as cancer. Every discovery helps improve lives. Better Medicine Professor Suzanne Scarlata examines the cellular mechanisms that determine how and why individuals respond differently to a drug, addressing a critical problem in health care. The implications of her research have many applications. Concrete Solutions Concrete is everywhere, and its production and deterioration contribute to global carbon dioxide production and waste. Associate Professor Nima Rahbar is working on solutions to make concrete more durable and sustainable. OffRoad Autonomous Vehicles Professor Vladimir Vantsevich and Professor of Practice Lee Moradi are taking autonomous vehicle technology off road to develop rugged systems capable of rolling across farms, construction sites, disaster zones, military theaters, and even other planets. Nurses and Robots Amid a national shortage of nursing professionals, Assistant Professor Jane Li is leading development of a userfriendly robot that could help nurses care for patients in health care facilities in the US and other countries. Mysteries of Cell Division How does one cell divide into two? Associate Professor Amity Manning is uncovering that process in her lab, making discoveries with implications for diseases such as cancer. Every discovery helps improve lives. Better Medicine Professor Suzanne Scarlata examines the cellular mechanisms that determine how and why individuals respond differently to a drug, addressing a critical problem in health care. The implications of her research have many applications. Concrete Solutions Concrete is everywhere, and its production and deterioration contribute to global carbon dioxide production and waste. Associate Professor Nima Rahbar is working on solutions to make concrete more durable and sustainable. Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right PARTNER WITH US SEE ALL RESEARCH AREAS Online Professional Development Courses  Trainings Advance Your Career with WPI's Online Offerings Are you looking to build on your existing skills, acquire new knowledge, or earn a certificate or badge? WPI offers micro courses and programs that could help you to: Stand out to land that next promotion. Stay current on the latest technologies. Explore a new career before committing to a degree program. Youll get the resources, support, and innovative education that WPI is known for. Upon completion of some of our courses, youll earn digital badges that you can use to promote your skills and expertise. Some of our courses are selfpaced and some need to be taken during a certain timeframe. Either way, the flexibility of the courses will help you stay on track. Browse courses by topic area below. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Academics Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Online Professional Development Courses  Trainings CONTACT Location: 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) gradwpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Instagram Icon of Instagram symbol Facebook Icon of Facebook logo LinkedIn Icon of LinkedIn Logo Systems Engineering Systems Engineering Awareness and Architecture Digital Badge Programs Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Browse all courses Biotechnology Understand process steps for in biotechnology with our introductory microcourses Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Biomanufacturing Processing Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Bioinformatics System Dynamics  Modeling Learn about system dynamics modeling in a series of microfoundational courses. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Browse courses Business Build your business skills to advance your career or advance your current skillset. Explore the areas of: Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Operations Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Project Management Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Browse all courses Computer Science Prepare for a career in software or web development. Explore the areas of: Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Data Science Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Programming Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Browse all courses Information Technology Start or advance your career in information technology. Explore the areas of: Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Cloud Computing Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Cybersecurity Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Networking Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Security Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Browse all courses IndustrySpecific Programs Learn about cable tech basics and fundamentals. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Browse courses Cannabis Certificate Programs Cannabis Certificate Programs Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Browse Programs Refresher Courses Revisit concepts in statistics, calculus, and other topics. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right BROWSE COURSES Professional Development Cybersecurity Boot Camp The Cybersecurity Boot Camp will help you earn the skills and credentials required to enter the cybersecurity workforce. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Enroll Today Professional Development CompTIATM Security Certification Training Securing this data is a key role in organizations of every size and type. This creates significant opportunities for professionals who can keep online data safe and private. The CompTIA Security certification is considered a global standard for validating cybersecurity skills. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Enroll Today More WPI Educational Offerings Online Graduate Programs and Certificates Explore our 50 science, engineering and business programs offered both online and on campus. Corporate Education and Workforce Development Collaborate with us to customize courses and programs for your employees, helping your company meet its innovation and business goals. WPI's STEM Education Center Inspire your PreK12 students in STEM by taking our STEM professional development workshops . Biomanufacturing Education  Training Center Expand your knowledge and hone your handson skills in our pilotscale biomanufacturing facility . PreCollegiate Outreach Be inspired. Have fun. Discover at WPI. Have a student interested in engineering? How about robotics? Or maybe music? Those are just a few examples of WPIs available precollegiate programs. A great opportunity to spark interest and expand knowledge for participants in a wide variety of topics. Theyre educational, immersive, handson, and most importantfun. Academic programs are offered for middle and high school students both during the school year and over the summer, with topics ranging from introductory STEM courses and robotics and math competitions, to the humanities and arts. WPIs precollegiate programs have helped students explore STEM fields while honing their leadership and collaborative skills, building confidence, and encouraging friendshipsall with the common goal of helping students pursue their passions and position themselves for future successes. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Academics Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up PreCollegiate Outreach Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Summer Programs Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Frontiers Overview (Grades 10, 11  12) College Credit Jumpstart Overview (Grades 11  12) Launch Overview (Grades 9, 10,  11) School Year Programs About Us Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Meet the Team Our Sponsors Program Policies Join Mailing List External Link Icon of a box with an arrow point outwards CONTACT Location: 20 Trowbridge Road Phone: 5088314900 Fax: 5088315188 popwpi.edu WPI In the Summer Find out more information on other programs hosted by WPI this summer! About POP Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Our Sponsors Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Program  Refund Policies Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Join Mailing List Academic Year Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Middle School STEM Experiences Summer Programs Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Frontiers Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right College Credit Jumpstart Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Launch 125,000 financial assistance for K12 students to attend WPI summer programs 3,500 youth received STEM programming Schools, Departments  Programs Four Schools. One WPI. School of Arts  Sciences The Business School School of Engineering The Global School Alternate Name for Directory (fieldalternatedirectoryname) Department Title Phone Email Location Aerospace Engineering 5088315221 aerospacewpi.edu Higgins Laboratories Biology  Biotechnology 5088315543 biowebwpi.edu 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) Biomedical Engineering 5088315447 bmewebwpi.edu 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) The Business School 5088315218 businesswpi.edu Washburn Shops Chemical Engineering 5088315250 grchemengwpi.edu Goddard Hall Chemistry  Biochemistry 5088315371 chembiochemwpi.edu 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) Civil, Environmental,  Architectural Engineering 5088315294 ceewpi.edu Kaven Hall Computer Science 5088315357 cswpi.edu Fuller Laboratories Electrical  Computer Engineering 5088315231 ecesecwpi.edu Atwater Kent Laboratories Fire Protection Engineering 5088315593 fpewpi.edu 50 Prescott Street (Gateway Park II) Humanities  Arts 5088315246 huawebwpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Integrative  Global Studies 5088315547 globalwpi.edu Laurie A. Leshin Global Project Center Mathematical Sciences 5088315241 maquestionswpi.edu Stratton Hall Mechanical  Materials Engineering 5088315236 mmewpi.edu Higgins Laboratories Physical Education 5088315243 athleticswpi.edu Physics 5088315258 physicswpi.edu Olin Hall Robotics Engineering 5088316665 rbewpi.edu Unity Hall Social Science  Policy Studies 5088315296 sspswpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Program Title Phone Email Location Air Force Aerospace Studies 5088315747 afrotcwpi.edu 37 Institute Road Architectural Engineering 5088315530 ceewpi.edu Kaven Hall Artificial Intelligence (AI) 5088316220 aiwpi.edu Unity Hall Bioinformatics  Computational Biology 5088315357 bcbwpi.edu Unity Hall Cybersecurity cybersecuritywpi.edu Data Science 5088316220 datasciencewpi.edu Unity Hall Environmental Engineering 5088315294 evewpi.edu Kaven Hall Industrial Engineering 5088316117 Washburn Shops Interactive Media  Game Development 5088314977 imgdwpi.edu Fuller Laboratories International  Global Studies 5088315246 intlstudieswebwpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Learning Sciences  Technologies 5088315569 lstwpi.edu Unity Hall Liberal Arts  Engineering 5088315514 leswpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Manufacturing Engineering 5088315992 mfewpi.edu Washburn Shops Materials Process Engineering 5088315992 mrpwpi.edu Washburn Shops Materials Science  Engineering 5088315992 mtewpi.edu Washburn Shops Military Science 5088315268 armyrotcwpi.edu 27 Hackfeld Road Neuroscience 5088316564 neurosciencewpi.edu Gateway Park Power Systems 5088315301 onlinewpi.edu Professional Writing pwwpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Psychological  Cognitive Sciences 5088315296 sspswpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Systems Engineering 5088315231 gradwpi.edu Atwater Kent Laboratories Admissions  Aid A premier STEMfocused university in the heart of Massachusetts, WPI is known for what it does best: delivering an education that is projectbased, globally engaged, and built on its founding approach of theory and practice. Our students are scientists, engineers, entrepreneurs, scholars, musicians, adventurers, and above all else, doers. Being a WPI student means following passions and bringing ideasand futuresto life. WPI students dont fit molds; rather, they break them and rebuild their own. More importantly, they g raduate fully prepared to step into challenging roles because they have powerful knowledge and know how to apply it. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Stem Arrow Down Icon of a stem arrow pointing down Admissions  Aid Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Undergraduate Admissions Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Visit with Us Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down High School Groups Accepted Students Visits Apply to WPI Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down How to Apply Transfer Students International Students Homeschool Students DACAUndocumented Students College Application Timeline Check My Application Status Ask a Question Connect with Us Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Meet the Admissions Team Ask a Question! Accepted Students Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Deferred EnrollmentGap Year Return on Investment WPI Innovation Award Welcome to WPI Graduate Admissions Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Steps to Apply Application Requirements International Applicants Meet the Team Accepted Students Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down New International Graduate Students New Domestic Graduate Students New BSMS Graduate Students Visiting Graduate Students, Scholars, and Researchers Connect with Us During Virtual Office Hours Financial Aid Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator Understanding Financial Aid Verification Process Award Conditions and Notes Financial Aid FAQ Types of Aid Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Scholarships  Grants Loans  Financing Options Emergency Assistance  Special Circumstances Graduate Assistantships Graduate Fellowships WPI Alumni Tuition Incentive CARES Act HEERF II HEERF III Applying for Aid Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down FirstYear Students Returning Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Students Attending Summer (E Term) Policies Forms Meet the Team Undergraduate Students New to WPI FAFSA Simplification Act Ready to join us? Learn more about the admissions process. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Financing Your WPI Education The Office of Financial Aid can guide you through the financial aid process and help you better understand the different types of aid that may be available to you so you can make the right investment in your future. Resources and assistance are available to all students: undergraduate, transfer, graduate, and summer term (Eterm). Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Financial Aid Options Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Cost of Attendance Four Schools. One WPI. School of Arts  Sciences The Business School School of Engineering The Global School Your Journey Starts Here Schedule an inperson campus tour  or visit us virtually from wherever you are  and get to know our beautiful 95plus acre campus nestled high on a hill in historic Worcester, Massachusetts. Hear from Crimson Key student tour guides and see our residence halls, makerspace and rapid prototyping labs, classrooms, stateoftheart Sports  Recreation Center and more. Not familiar with Worcester? Our convenient central location in New England's secondlargest city puts students close to all the best the city has to offer, including the Worcester Art Museum, the worldrenowned American Antiquarian Society, and Polar Park, home to the Worcester Red Sox. Plan Your Visit Clubs  Organizations Are you a gamer who lives to play? A sports enthusiast who needs to compete? A musician who loves to perform? A cheese connoisseur who...well, loves cheese? At WPI, weve got a club for that. In fact, with over 235 student organizations, weve got something for everyoneincluding you. Getting involved in an extracurricular activity helps you to meet new people, share your talents and interests, and even discover a newfound passion you may never have found before. When you arrive on campus, be sure to check out the Activities Fair, where over 200 clubs and organizations gather to advertise their clubs and associated opportunities. It's a great way to see if theres a club or two that youd be interested in joining. Check out the list of clubs available to join at WPI here . Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Getting Involved Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Clubs  Organizations CONTACT Location: Rubin Campus Center Phone: 5088315291 saowpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Facebook Icon of Facebook logo Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right WPI's Got What? With an environment that empowers students to pursue their passions, you'll find there's a club or organization for everyone at WPIfrom the Society of Magicians and pep band to underwater hockey and the cheese club. Get to know some of them. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right WPI's Got What? Series Online Resources for Student Activities Log into MyWPI regularly to see what kinds of events are being held both on and offcampus, from magic shows and pizza parties to concerts, sporting events, and more. Visit MyWPI 80 of students are involved in sports activities 50 professional, career development, and honor societies 40 club sports and intramural teams 235 student clubs and organizations News Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More News Student Race Car Builders Find Formula for Success May 13, 2024 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  08:49 Your browser does not support the audio element. WPI's LEGO Club Creates Flowers for Inauguration March 20, 2024 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  03:09 Your browser does not support the audio element. Community Service Fraternities  Sororities Student Club Resources Student Leadership Student Activities Office Discover Student Voices Announcements Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Announcements ODIME Welcomes Our New Students to the WPI Herd! August 02, 2024 Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural Education (ODIME) A Haven for All: Peace Pole at the Collegiate Religious Center (CRC) July 31, 2024 Collegiate Religious Center WPIs Massachusetts Alpha Chapter of Tau Beta Pi Initiates Nearly 50 New Members April 19, 2024 Clubs  Organizations Notes from the Campus Chaplains: DTerm Welcomes Sacred Months April 13, 2024 Collegiate Religious Center Guidance for DTerm High Holy Days March 14, 2024 Collegiate Religious Center Guidance for CTerm High Holy Days January 04, 2024 Collegiate Religious Center WPI Alliance, oSTEM Affiliate Chapter, Awarded Chapter of the Year by oSTEM December 11, 2023 Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural Education (ODIME) Active Minds: Campus Guidance on Antisemitism and Islamophobia December 11, 2023 Collegiate Religious Center Vigil For Peace: A Response to Israel and Gaza October 10, 2023 Collegiate Religious Center Second Annual Block Party: Living Culture During Welcome Week September 22, 2023 Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural Education (ODIME) Worcester Polytechnic Institute Make Your Graduate Degree Yours WPI Graduate  Professional Studies Request Information Apply The graduate school where great minds join to advance the future. With the STEMfocused research activity and stateoftheart resources of a much larger university, our topranked graduate programs in Worcester, Mass., are your gateway to a career of purpose and passion. Prepare for the career of tomorrow. Master the art and science of innovation within arm's reach of Boston, a global tech hub. Research and innovate in practical industry settings that mirror your future workplace. Grow your teamwork and problemsolving skills as you collaborate with peers from different areas. Become a singular leader in your field . Build vital yet rare soft skills by managing realworld projects across disciplines. Gain essential skills beyond the classroom through professional development training programs. Distinguish yourself in a competitive job market with the help of our awardwinning career center. Your graduate degree or certificate from WPI will be more than a piece of paperit will be a launchpad for your career. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Academics Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Graduate  Professional Studies Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Why Choose WPI? Our Graduate Programs Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Collaborative Accelerated Master's Program (CAMP) Graduate Student Experience Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Graduate School FAQs Graduate Student Mentoring Student Success Team Graduate Student Resources Professional Development Programming Graduate Internships Visiting Graduate Students, Scholars, and Researchers Academic Coaching Our Graduate Students International Graduate Students Graduate Research Meet the Team Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Student Support by Program News and Events Funding Opportunities WPI Graduate Admissions  CONTACT Location: 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) Phone: 5088315301 Fax: 5088315694 gradwpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Instagram Icon of Instagram symbol Facebook Icon of Facebook logo LinkedIn Icon of LinkedIn Logo Value  Programs  Admissions  About Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Collaboration is everything. It makes your research more rewarding and enjoyable. You'll find that the bonds you form through teamwork can lead to lifelong friendships and professional networks. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Sharvi Ghoghale '25 (MS) Computer Science GUIDED CAMPUS TOURS Visit WPI and Find Your CommunityToday! Sign Up for a Tour WPI is the premier STEM university in Massachusetts for techfocused leaders, makers, and doers. Why Choose WPI? Real ROI for the Long Run 1 best online master's in engineering programs Forbes (2023) 8 best on campus master's program in computer science Fortune (2024) 13 best career placement The Princeton Review (2024) DID YOU KNOW? Within a Year of Graduating... 94 of WPI masters degree recipients and 93 of PhD recipients are employed or continuing their studies. Class of 2023 EXPLORE PROGRAMS A Curriculum Crafted by Industry Experts. A Program Customized by You. Masters degree. Combined BSMS degree. Graduate certificate. PhD. Start mapping out your plan of study today. Online Graduate Programs Professional Development Courses Combined BSMS All WPI Graduate Programs ADMISSIONS INFO How to Become a WPI Graduate Student Our grad school application process is easy. Rolling admission means you can apply any time. Apply Icon of piece of paper View Application Requirements Requirements Icon of a check symbol Steps to Apply Clock Icon of clock Check Application Status Email Icon of a letter Contact Us for Help Important Dates Important Dates (202526) Summer '25 Fall '25 Spring '26 Summer '26 Start date May 22 ( Summer I) July 7 (Summer II) August 21 January 14 May 21 (Summer I) July 6 (Summer II) Priority application date NA January 15 October 15 NA Latest application date May 8 (Summer IFull Summer) June 23 (Summer II) August 7 December 15 May 7 (Summer IFull Summer) June 22 (Summer II) This is the priority deadline to be considered for funding. Applicants who apply after the priority deadline are still eligible for funding, pending availability. There is no additional application to complete for WPI funding opportunities. Upon completing the graduate application, you will be automatically considered for any financial assistance that you are eligible for. See "Rolling Admissions" below. Rolling Admissions You can submit your application anytime up until two weeks before the semester start date to be considered for admission. If you submit less than two weeks before, you can indicate on the application that you are willing to be considered for the next semester. All applicants are encouraged to submit their applications at least two months before their desired start date to ensure a smooth admissions process. International students should submit their applications as early as possible to allow for longer processing times. Financial Assistance for Grad Students Meet the Graduate Admissions Team Request Information Click on your area of interest below to learn more: Inquire Icon of an info symbol Master's Degrees  Certificates Inquire Icon of an info symbol PhD Programs Inquire Icon of an info symbol Combined BSMS Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Our campus is a melting pot of ideas and cultures that can broaden your horizons and enrich your academic journey. It will make you a more wellrounded individual and a better researcher. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Prathamesh Mehta '24 (MS) Robotics Engineering International Students Applying to WPI From Outside the US? Go to International Forms ABOUT WPI What Makes Our Graduate School Different? It's all about you. With WPI's flexible programs and personal approach to education, you're in the driver's seat. Support for the Whole Student Inclusive. Kind. Collaborative. WPI graduate students often use these words to describe our community. With 1:2 faculty mentoring, a holistic commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging (DEIB), and a suite of career development resources, we're dedicated to your success beyond the classroom. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right DEIB at WPI Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Heebner Career Development Center Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Professional Training Programs Student Success Team Every graduate student at WPI has access to a unique benefit: the Student Success team. Youll get 1:1 attention from a Student Success manager who will help you with any nonacademic issue you might have: balancing school and life as a working professional, navigating the world of online learning, connecting to wellness resources, and much more. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Meet the Student Success Team Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See All Student Resources Customized Degree As a WPI graduate student, you have the power to build your own degree. Our flexible graduate school programs mean you can pick an area of specialization that best aligns with your passions and goals. Well work with you to design a plan of study that satisfies the curriculum requirements and positions you for the career of your dreams. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Hear From WPI Grad Students Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn About Academic Life Coaching Be Part of CuttingEdge Research  Innovation WPI is now designated as a Carnegie Research 1 (R1) institution, placing it in the top tier of U.S. colleges and universities with the highest levels of research activity. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read Press Release Famous Inventions From WPI Students, faculty, and alumni of WPI have changed the world with inventions ranging from lithiumion battery recycling to liquidfueled rockets to concrete that heals its own cracks. What will your innovation be? Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right View historic WPI inventions Grad Student Research WPI graduate students play an essential role in a large and thriving research community, contributing to faculty research projects, leading research institutions, and partner organizations worldwide. Thanks to interdisciplinary collaboration, our graduate students are able to attack complex problems from all angles, making them highly sought after by employers. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right More Graduate Research  Resources Faculty Research WPI faculty research is funded by elite grants from the National Science Foundation (NSF), US Department of Defense, US Department of Energy, National Institutes of Health (NIH), and many more. Our faculty's major breakthroughs in artificial intelligence, biotechnology, clean energy, robotics, and all other fields will continue to shape the future. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See the latest research news Labs  Facilities The stateoftheart research equipment and facilities at WPI are on par with some of the most famous research universities in the world. Available for internal and external use, our technology includes instrumentation for materials analysis, micro and nanofabrication, microscopy, metrology, photonics, medical imaging, biomechanics, and more. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right View core research facilities Corporate Partners WPIs emphasis on applied research means faculty and grad students engage in work alongside corporate partners that can translate into products, services, or other intellectual property. These industry leaders can leverage the expertise of our faculty and students, use our hightech instrumentation, and even license our technologies to make their next breakthrough. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn about corporate partnerships The Innovation Studio Team up with peers from other disciplines and let your imagination run wild. This open space invites students of all backgrounds to create, model, and test new ideas and use stateoftheart equipment, including rapid prototype 3D printers. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Get inspired Business Development Lab The Business Development Lab acts as a cuttingedge incubator, propelling startups from concept to commercialization. Accelerate the development of your startup, enhance your entrepreneurial expertise, and launch the next disruptive STEM venture. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Support systems, mentorships, and more Innovation  Entrepreneurship WPIs Innovation  Entrepreneurship Center is where youll find support through skillbased workshops, mentorship, innovation challenges, networking opportunities, handson projects, funding, and more. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Turn your idea into reality Famous Inventions From WPI Students, faculty, and alumni of WPI have changed the world with inventions ranging from lithiumion battery recycling to liquidfueled rockets to concrete that heals its own cracks. What will your innovation be? Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right View historic WPI inventions Grad Student Research WPI graduate students play an essential role in a large and thriving research community, contributing to faculty research projects, leading research institutions, and partner organizations worldwide. Thanks to interdisciplinary collaboration, our graduate students are able to attack complex problems from all angles, making them highly sought after by employers. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right More Graduate Research  Resources Faculty Research WPI faculty research is funded by elite grants from the National Science Foundation (NSF), US Department of Defense, US Department of Energy, National Institutes of Health (NIH), and many more. Our faculty's major breakthroughs in artificial intelligence, biotechnology, clean energy, robotics, and all other fields will continue to shape the future. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See the latest research news Labs  Facilities The stateoftheart research equipment and facilities at WPI are on par with some of the most famous research universities in the world. Available for internal and external use, our technology includes instrumentation for materials analysis, micro and nanofabrication, microscopy, metrology, photonics, medical imaging, biomechanics, and more. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right View core research facilities Corporate Partners WPIs emphasis on applied research means faculty and grad students engage in work alongside corporate partners that can translate into products, services, or other intellectual property. These industry leaders can leverage the expertise of our faculty and students, use our hightech instrumentation, and even license our technologies to make their next breakthrough. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn about corporate partnerships The Innovation Studio Team up with peers from other disciplines and let your imagination run wild. This open space invites students of all backgrounds to create, model, and test new ideas and use stateoftheart equipment, including rapid prototype 3D printers. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Get inspired Business Development Lab The Business Development Lab acts as a cuttingedge incubator, propelling startups from concept to commercialization. Accelerate the development of your startup, enhance your entrepreneurial expertise, and launch the next disruptive STEM venture. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Support systems, mentorships, and more Innovation  Entrepreneurship WPIs Innovation  Entrepreneurship Center is where youll find support through skillbased workshops, mentorship, innovation challenges, networking opportunities, handson projects, funding, and more. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Turn your idea into reality Famous Inventions From WPI Students, faculty, and alumni of WPI have changed the world with inventions ranging from lithiumion battery recycling to liquidfueled rockets to concrete that heals its own cracks. What will your innovation be? Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right View historic WPI inventions Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote WPIs project experiences were very insightful and helped inform my career decisions regarding graduate school and my current field of research: electromagnetic levitation experiments on the International Space Station. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Lydia TonaniPenha '23 PhD Candidate Mechanical Engineering WorldClass Faculty  Staff Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See all faculty Craig Shue Professor  Department Head, Computer Science Expert Bio Professor Shue's expertise lies in network security. He focuses on using system and network measurements to understand what is happening on a network to protect traditional computers and IoT devices. He also build systems that can detect and prevent attacks to keep organizations and regular Internet users secure. He can speak about all these topics and his research about vulnerabilities in and attacks on multifactor authentication. Professor Shue has provided analysis for media organizations including NPR and The Associated Press on the July 2024 global technology outage stemming from a defective CrowdStrike software update. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Donald Gelosh Director, Systems Engineering, Graduate  Professional Studies Dr. Don Gelosh is Director of Systems Engineering Programs for the Institutes Corporate and Professional Education (CPE) division. In this role, Dr. Gelosh works closely with WPIs faculty in the development of systems engineering programs. Dr. Gelosh also works with an external Systems Engineering Advisory Council and fosters partnerships among WPI and companies and organizations involved in the systems engineering field. Dr. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Adrienne HallPhillips Associate Professor, The Business School Expert Bio Professor HallPhillips' research focuses on studying general consumer behavior, with specific interest in topics related to value, engagement, and loyalty in the areas of user experience and entrepreneurship. An additional research focus is on discovering how social media influences consumption in online and offline environments. HallPhillips leads the Social Media Analytics Lab (SMAL) at The Business School which allows students the opportunity explore how social media affects community connections and how it can be responsibly harnessed across a variety of areas from mental health to consumer behavior. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Ali Rangwala Professor, Fire Protection Engineering Expert Bio Professor Rangwala's research interests include problems related to industrial fire and explosions. He has worked on topics such as deflagration of combustible dust clouds, ignition behavior of combustible dust layers, insitu burning of oil, spread of an oil slick in channels, velocity measuring techniques in fire induced flows, and flame propagation and burning rate behavior of condensed fuel surfaces. As director of WPI's firstinthenation explosion protection engineering master's program, Rangwala can speak about the f ire and explosion risks posed by manufacturing facilities and advancing technologies like electric vehicles and hydrogen fuel cells. He has provided analysis for The Wall Street Journal and Business Insider on the fire and explosion risks associated with lithiumion batteries. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Elke Rundensteiner Professor, Computer Science, Program Head, Data Science, Computer Science Expert Bio Professor Rundensteiner's research focuses on how to make use of data and information in an effective manner, towards achieving goals in business, scientific discovery, and digital health. With the interconnectivity of the internet, the availability of computing power, and big data everywhere, access to the right piece of information at the right moment, fused together from numerous information sources, is at the core of critical capabilities that she has been developing. Her work includes developing big data, machine learning and data visualization technologies to discover and explore important insights in massive data sets and realtime data streams in applications from fraud detection, digital health, emergency management, business intelligence, to event analytics. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Craig Shue Professor  Department Head, Computer Science Expert Bio Professor Shue's expertise lies in network security. He focuses on using system and network measurements to understand what is happening on a network to protect traditional computers and IoT devices. He also build systems that can detect and prevent attacks to keep organizations and regular Internet users secure. He can speak about all these topics and his research about vulnerabilities in and attacks on multifactor authentication. Professor Shue has provided analysis for media organizations including NPR and The Associated Press on the July 2024 global technology outage stemming from a defective CrowdStrike software update. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Donald Gelosh Director, Systems Engineering, Graduate  Professional Studies Dr. Don Gelosh is Director of Systems Engineering Programs for the Institutes Corporate and Professional Education (CPE) division. In this role, Dr. Gelosh works closely with WPIs faculty in the development of systems engineering programs. Dr. Gelosh also works with an external Systems Engineering Advisory Council and fosters partnerships among WPI and companies and organizations involved in the systems engineering field. Dr. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Adrienne HallPhillips Associate Professor, The Business School Expert Bio Professor HallPhillips' research focuses on studying general consumer behavior, with specific interest in topics related to value, engagement, and loyalty in the areas of user experience and entrepreneurship. An additional research focus is on discovering how social media influences consumption in online and offline environments. HallPhillips leads the Social Media Analytics Lab (SMAL) at The Business School which allows students the opportunity explore how social media affects community connections and how it can be responsibly harnessed across a variety of areas from mental health to consumer behavior. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Ali Rangwala Professor, Fire Protection Engineering Expert Bio Professor Rangwala's research interests include problems related to industrial fire and explosions. He has worked on topics such as deflagration of combustible dust clouds, ignition behavior of combustible dust layers, insitu burning of oil, spread of an oil slick in channels, velocity measuring techniques in fire induced flows, and flame propagation and burning rate behavior of condensed fuel surfaces. As director of WPI's firstinthenation explosion protection engineering master's program, Rangwala can speak about the f ire and explosion risks posed by manufacturing facilities and advancing technologies like electric vehicles and hydrogen fuel cells. He has provided analysis for The Wall Street Journal and Business Insider on the fire and explosion risks associated with lithiumion batteries. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Elke Rundensteiner Professor, Computer Science, Program Head, Data Science, Computer Science Expert Bio Professor Rundensteiner's research focuses on how to make use of data and information in an effective manner, towards achieving goals in business, scientific discovery, and digital health. With the interconnectivity of the internet, the availability of computing power, and big data everywhere, access to the right piece of information at the right moment, fused together from numerous information sources, is at the core of critical capabilities that she has been developing. Her work includes developing big data, machine learning and data visualization technologies to discover and explore important insights in massive data sets and realtime data streams in applications from fraud detection, digital health, emergency management, business intelligence, to event analytics. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Craig Shue Professor  Department Head, Computer Science Expert Bio Professor Shue's expertise lies in network security. He focuses on using system and network measurements to understand what is happening on a network to protect traditional computers and IoT devices. He also build systems that can detect and prevent attacks to keep organizations and regular Internet users secure. He can speak about all these topics and his research about vulnerabilities in and attacks on multifactor authentication. Professor Shue has provided analysis for media organizations including NPR and The Associated Press on the July 2024 global technology outage stemming from a defective CrowdStrike software update. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right HIGHLIGHTS The Graduate School for Connection, Growth  Discovery Explore more benefits of Graduate  Professional Studies at WPI. Prestigious Alumni Alumni of WPI's graduate school have gone on to become presidents and csuite leaders of renowned companies like Salesforce, Starwood Hotels  Resorts, Solvus Global, and more. Others have founded startups in highgrowth industries including AI, biotechnology, chemical manufacturing, renewable energy, and software development. The best part? They know firsthand the value of a WPI graduate degree, and they love to hire from our deep pool of talent. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Career resources for alumni Corporate Education Help your staff become more productive and knowledgeable through continuous learning opportunities at WPI. Our asynchronous learning options provide more flexibility and worklife balance for staff while they prepare to tackle future challenges. They'll practice with the latest industry technology in our stateoftheart facilities, and under the guidance of our expert faculty, as they manage realworld projects that mirror the work they're regularly engaged in. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right View popular programs Strategic Location The secondlargest city in New England, Worcester is a growing hub for industries like bioengineering, drug manufacturing, healthcare, and technology. Take advantage of networking and internship opportunities, industry partnerships, and the expanding international community. Easily travel to nearby Boston and New York City. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn more about Worcester Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Go on a virtual tour Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Worcester is seeing its stock rise so fast that it is outpacing just about every other small city in America. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote  NPR Alumni Success Story Breaking New Ground for Women's Health With Opal Therapeutics, Morgan Stanton, PhD 14, accelerates the development of new treatments for gynecological diseases and disorders. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read more in the WPI Journal Learn More Graduate School FAQs Graduate Student Experience Stay Up to Date Read Our Blog View Event Calendar Academic Calendars We do a lot of things differently at WPI, and that includes our academic schedule. Use the guide below to learn more about how our academic calendar is structured. T he information on this page and all subsequent calendar pages is accurate as of the date of publication. However, all future academic calendars are reviewed annually, published for planning purposes, and are subject to change. 20242025 20252026 20262027 Find student events and other university events on the University Calendar. University Calendar Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Academics Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Academic Calendars Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down 20242025 20252026 20262027 CONTACT Location: Unity Hall Office Location: Room 435 Phone: 5088315211 Fax: 5088315931 registrarwpi.edu WPI Important Dates Guide Term vs. Semester There are four 7week academic terms (A, B, C, and D) in the regular academic year, as well as two optional summer terms (E1 and E2). Some courses, such as most graduate courses, are 14 week semesters (i.e. Fall Semester). Alternate Schedule Days To make up for repeated missed classes due to the holiday schedule, alternate schedule days are incorporated into the academic calendar. On these days, students will follow their class schedule of a different weekday. See the academic calendar to learn which days of the term may follow the schedule of a different weekday. Wellness Days Wellness Days are built into the academic calendar once a term as days to reflect, relax, reconnect, and reenergize as individuals and as a campus community. There will no classes, no due dates, no noncritical lab work, and no meetings held on these days. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Center for WellBeing Holidays The academic calendar reflects the university observed holiday schedule. In an effort to foster a community of inclusion and belonging at WPI, we encourage you to be mindful of religious holidays, interfaith and holy days, and other commemorative events which may impact student and employee participation in campus programs, events, and activities. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Religious Holidays and Observances Quick Links Follow these quick links for other resources regarding university scheduling, planning, and events. Center for WellBeing Collegiate Religious Center The Student Experience The Business School at WPI Be the Next STEMFocused Leader The Business School at WPI Be the Next STEMFocused Leader Business  STEM  Impact We're the business school for engineers, scientists, and changemakers. The WPI Business School integrates business and STEM disciplines to prepare adaptive leaders who shape the world at the intersection of business, technology, and people. What will your impact be? Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Schools, Departments  Programs Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up The Business School Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down About Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Deans Office Faculty Accreditations  STEM Designations Connect with Us Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Scholarships Suggested Graduate Curriculum Plans Graduate Internship Reports Forms Our PhD Students Courses and Available Degrees Research  Labs Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Analytical Research Collaborative for a Humane  Equitable Society Business Development Lab Business Resilience  Climate Change Digital Health Lab FinTech Lab at WPI Social Media Analytics Lab User Experience  Decision Making Center for Innovative Manufacturing Solutions Small Business Digitization Services The WPI Business School Speaker Series Business Week Programs Team Student Experience Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down MentorLink Resources Student Innovation  Entrepreneurship Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Resources Our Accreditations FinTech at WPI Build the Future of Finance WPI is the first university in the U.S. to offer degrees in Financial Technology at every level of study. It's the whole portfolio. With the rise in online payments services, mobile banking, and cryptocurrencies, FinTech has become one of the fastestgrowing industries in the global economy with 1.5 million new roles forecasted and some of the highest salaries in the tech industry. Prepare for a career that meets the moment with a degree in FinTech from The WPI Business School. Bachelor of Science in FinTech Master of Science in FinTech Graduate Certificate in FinTech PhD in FinTech Undergraduate Programs Entrepreneurial thinking, collaboration across disciplines, and innovative uses of technology. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right SEE UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS Graduate Programs There is a pressing need for engineers and scientists with business acumen and management skills. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right SEE GRADUATE PROGRAMS Faculty Research Expertise Realworld impact that inspires a new generation of makers, leaders, and boundary breakers. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right MORE ABOUT FACULTY RESEARCH Faculty in the News Sharing Personal Finance Expertise Farnoush Reshadi An Assistant Professor of Marketing in the WPI Business School, Farnoush Reshadis research focuses on how consumers make financial and health decisions. Her expertise has been featured in USA Today and Wallet Hub bringing national attention to her work and WPI. Faculty Snapshot Elizabeth Long Lingo Discover what this associate professor in The Business School keeps in her office. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read more in the WPI Journal Student Project Predicting NFL Player Performance Students analyzed whether data collected during the leagues main scouting event could accurately predict how wide receivers performed during real games Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read more in the WPI Journal Alumni Success Story Commercializing Innovative AI Two groups of entrepreneurs are using the power of data modeling to address problems in industries not known for embracing hightech solutions. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read more in the WPI Journal Calendar Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Events Apr 18 Undergraduate Research Project Showcase  Poster Submission Day Clock Icon of clock All day Announcements Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Announcements GOAT TANK 2025: WPIs Top Undergraduate Startups Take the Stage February 28, 2025 Innovation  Entrepreneurship  WPI Rockets to Top 25 in Ranking of US Online MBA Programs January 14, 2025 The Business School WPI Student Entrepreneurs Win Prestigious Global Pitch Competition with Innovative Wheelchair Motorization Attachment November 07, 2024 Marketing Communications Business School Professor Joe Sarkis appears on Sustainability Leaders Podcast October 21, 2024 The Business School News Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More News The Paradox of Tedious Work: Research Reveals Impact on Creativity November 11, 2024 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  07:09 Your browser does not support the audio element. Students Learn About Entrepreneurism Through Mango Challenge July 24, 2024 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  06:15 Your browser does not support the audio element. WPI Launches FirstintheNation Financial Technology PhD; Only University in the U.S. to Offer All Degree Levels in FinTech April 04, 2024 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  04:44 Your browser does not support the audio element. WPI Announces Faculty Promotions and Tenure Awards February 28, 2024 Donor Profile Trae and Steve Vassallo 93 These donors committed a sevenfigure philanthropic gift to establish the Dr. Helen G. Vassallo Distinguished Presidential Professorship in memory of Steves mother. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read more in the WPI Journal PREVIOUS STORY WPI Attains Designation as an R1 Research University NEXT STORY FirstYear Students Explore Artificial Intelligence Students Share Global Projects at Presidents IQP Award Final Presentations Finalists completed projects in Australia, France, Paraguay, Puerto Rico, and Taiwan LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  10:00 0.5x 1x 1.5x 2x Your browser does not support the audio element. SUBSCRIBE: Alexa Skill Apple Podcasts Spotify Youtube February 13, 2025 By Jonathan Cain Photography Matthew Burgos Students (LR) Naomi Treto and Katelyn Lunny participated in a presentation of their team's project. On January 31, a campus tradition recognized some of the excellent work done by WPI students during one of the universitys signature academic experiences, the Interactive Qualifying Project (IQP). The Presidents IQP Award, given annually, honors outstanding achievement in the sevenweek, fulltime projects completed during the previous academic year. The IQP requires students to work in interdisciplinary teams in partnership with a communitybased sponsor to address a realworld problem that involves science, technology, and societal needs. Most students complete their IQP offcampus at one of more than 50 WPI project centers located on six continents. Student teams are invited to enter their projects to compete for the Presidents IQP Award. Out of the submissions from the more than 300 IQPs completed in the 20232024 academic year, a faculty screening committee selected five projects as finalists. The teams whose projects were chosen presented their work in the Rubin Campus Center Odeum to President Grace Wang , their project advisors, faculty, staff, students, family members, and a panel of judges. The finalist projects represent the breadth of the societal challenges addressed by WPI students, the variety of locations where students can travel through the Global Projects Program , and the exemplary research, writing, teamwork, and appreciation of the social and humanistic contexts that are critical components of the IQP. After deliberation, the judges decided two teamsinstead of just oneshould win the 2024 Presidents IQP Award. The winning projects were announced at a reception for the finalists at Higgins House following the project presentations. The winning teams Hunter Daris, Ella Devault, Gavin George, and Federico Lenson, all seniors, completed their awardwinning project Behind the Frontline: Vicarious Trauma Amongst Support Staff in Victorias Emergency Management Sector at the Melbourne, Australia project center . They worked with the nonprofit Emergency Services Foundation, interviewing support workers (such as dispatchers, journalists, and counselors) from 12 agencies to better understand their lived experiences with vicarious trauma. Their stories revealed oftenunacknowledged struggles and barriers to accessing trauma support resources. After interviews with mental health experts, the team recommended new practices to help workers in these roles. In addition to preparing a final written report, the students presented their findings in a webinar with managers from the emergency services sector and they produced a podcast episode in which emergency management support staff shared their stories to raise awareness of vicarious trauma and encourage others to seek help. Were very proud of the reach that our research has had, Devault, a civil engineering major, said in the teams award event presentation. We know that the real work is being done every day by the managers and the support staff to really develop and refine these programs to make sure that no support staff individual is left behind. The team was advised by Lorraine Higgins , a teaching professor in The Global School , and Jonathan Chee, a local coordinator at the Melbourne project center. A Presidents IQP Award was also given to seniors Peter Allen, Marley Fortune, and Camille Prats and juniors Annabelle Mullins and Colette Scott for their project How Bazar? Creating Interactive Media to Promote Community Building, which they did at the Lyon, France project center . The team partnered with SINGA Lyon, an organization that seeks to accelerate the inclusion of migrants and asylum seekers in communities. The students conducted research on immigration politics in France and developed strategies, including a digital icebreaker game and a migration quiz, for SINGAs annual Bazar Festival to promote greater understanding of migrants and create new connections between people. Prats, an interactive media and game development major, said the project sponsor was excited by the teams ability to build games. They thought that games would be a good way to reach out to people without having to have a serious conversation about immigration, she said. A game can be a friendlier way to start a conversation. The team was advised by Grant Burrier , associate professor of teaching in The Global School, and Tahar ElKorchi , professor of civil, environmental, and architectural engineering. The finalists  Harmonizing Holistic Health  Disaster Relief in Puerto Rico . Students: seniors Ian Cody, Mya Darrow, Katelyn Lunny, and Naomi Treto. Advisors: Grant Burrier and Scott Jiusto . San Juan, Puerto Rico project center . The team worked with Apoyo Mutuo Agrcola to create a communitybased emergency plan for rural and urban areas, develop a website, and gather information on resources available to help the nonprofit strengthen its network. Students (LR) Avila Thompson, Hillary Quezada, Andrew Cunningham, and Luca Scotto presented their project.  The Implementation of the XRP Curriculum in the Cerrito School of Paraguay . Students: seniors Andrew Cunningham, Hillary Quezada, Luca Scotto, and Avila Thompson. Advisors: Dorothy Burt, adjunct instructor, and Lina MuozMrquez . Asuncin, Paraguay project center . The team worked with the nonprofit Fundacin Paraguaya to develop presentations, lesson plans, workshops, and multimedia tools to launch a robotics course in a high school. The course utilizes the Experiential Robotics Platform (XRP) , which WPI helped develop with DEKA Research  Development Corp.  TSchool HandsOn Program at Soochow University . Students: seniors Spencer Dill, Eleanor Foley, Sakshi Gauro, and Jakub Jandus. Advisors: Robert Kinicki and WenHua Du . Taipei, Taiwan project center . The students worked with faculty at Soochow University and conducted interviews, surveys, observations, and analysis to provide recommendations for the universitys experiential Talent School (TSchool) to improve educational outcomes, student satisfaction, and teamwork. Honorable mentions The following projects received honorable mentions by the faculty review committee that selected the finalists for the Presidents IQP Award:  Developing a Kiwi Safety Plan for Upper Hutt, Aotearoa . Students: seniors William Brownell, Seth Frank, Domenic Sena, Paige Sommers. Advisors: Leslie Dodson , Kenneth Stafford , and Ingrid Shockey . Wellington, New Zealand project center . The team collaborated with Pest Free Upper Hutt, a communitybased organization, to develop a plan and create publicly available informational material on ways to protect kiwi, birds that are a national symbol in New Zealand.  Digital Heritage Preservation of the Shilin District: Conserving Taiwans Unique Identity . Students: seniors Will Buchta, Hannah Moran, Rose Strobel, Alexis Vilmenay. Advisors: WenHua Du and Robert Kinicki. Taipei, Taiwan project center . The students partnered with Fusheng Shih, an associate professor at Soochow University, to develop an interactive website to help preserve the cultural heritage and identity of one of Taipeis 12 districts. The judges In advance of the final presentations, four judges reviewed the written reports and materials submitted by the five finalist teams. At the event, the panel observed each teams presentation, asked team members questions about their projects, and then met to select the award winners. Judges included Lisa Mullins, news anchor at WBUR, a National Public Radio affiliate in Boston; Mimi Sheller , dean of The Global School; Kris Wobbe , director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning at WPI; and Mark Boyer, professor emeritus at the University of Connecticut and former executive director of the International Studies Association. Judges for President's IQP Award. (LR) Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning, Mimi Sheller, dean of The Global School, Lisa Mullins, WBUR news anchor, Mark Boyer, professor emeritus, University of Connecticut President's IQP Award winners: Behind the Frontline: Vicarious Trauma Amongst Support Staff in Victorias Emergency Management Sector. (LR) President Grace Wang, Lisa Mullins, Kent Rissmiller, associate dean of The Global School, Lorraine Higgins, advisor, Federico Lenson, Ella Devault, Hunter Daris, Gavin George, Mimi Sheller, Dean of The Global School, Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning President's IQP Award winners: How Bazar? Creating Interactive Media to Promote Community Building. (LR) President Grace Wang, Lisa Mullins, Camille Prats, Annabelle Mullins, Colette Scott, Peter Allen, Marley Fortune, Grant Burrier, advisor, Kent Rissmiller, associate dean of The Global School, Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning, Mimi Sheller, Dean of The Global School, President's IQP Award finalists: Harmonizing Holistic Health  Disaster Relief in Puerto Rico. (LR) President Grace Wang, Lisa Mullins, Mimi Sheller, dean of The Global School, Ian Cody, Mya Darrow, Katelyn Lunny, Naomi Treto, Grant Burrier, advisor, Kent Rissmiller, associate dean of The Global School, Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning President's IQP Award finalists: The Implementation of the XRP Curriculum in the Cerrito School of Paraguay. (LR) President Grace Wang, Lisa Mullins, Dorothy Burt, advisor, Hillary Quezada, Avila Thompson, Luca Scotto, Andrew Cunningham, Lina MuozMrquez, advisor, Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning, Kent Rissmiller, associate dean of The Global School, Mimi Sheller, dean of The Global School President's IQP Award finalists: TSchool HandsOn Program at Soochow University. (LR) President Grace Wang, Lisa Mullins, WenHua Du, advisor, Jakub Jandus, Sakshi Gauro, Eleanor Foley, Spencer Dill, Kent Rissmiller, associate dean of The Global School, Mimi Sheller, dean of The Global School, Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning Judges for President's IQP Award. (LR) Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning, Mimi Sheller, dean of The Global School, Lisa Mullins, WBUR news anchor, Mark Boyer, professor emeritus, University of Connecticut President's IQP Award winners: Behind the Frontline: Vicarious Trauma Amongst Support Staff in Victorias Emergency Management Sector. (LR) President Grace Wang, Lisa Mullins, Kent Rissmiller, associate dean of The Global School, Lorraine Higgins, advisor, Federico Lenson, Ella Devault, Hunter Daris, Gavin George, Mimi Sheller, Dean of The Global School, Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning President's IQP Award winners: How Bazar? Creating Interactive Media to Promote Community Building. (LR) President Grace Wang, Lisa Mullins, Camille Prats, Annabelle Mullins, Colette Scott, Peter Allen, Marley Fortune, Grant Burrier, advisor, Kent Rissmiller, associate dean of The Global School, Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning, Mimi Sheller, Dean of The Global School, President's IQP Award finalists: Harmonizing Holistic Health  Disaster Relief in Puerto Rico. (LR) President Grace Wang, Lisa Mullins, Mimi Sheller, dean of The Global School, Ian Cody, Mya Darrow, Katelyn Lunny, Naomi Treto, Grant Burrier, advisor, Kent Rissmiller, associate dean of The Global School, Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning President's IQP Award finalists: The Implementation of the XRP Curriculum in the Cerrito School of Paraguay. (LR) President Grace Wang, Lisa Mullins, Dorothy Burt, advisor, Hillary Quezada, Avila Thompson, Luca Scotto, Andrew Cunningham, Lina MuozMrquez, advisor, Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning, Kent Rissmiller, associate dean of The Global School, Mimi Sheller, dean of The Global School President's IQP Award finalists: TSchool HandsOn Program at Soochow University. (LR) President Grace Wang, Lisa Mullins, WenHua Du, advisor, Jakub Jandus, Sakshi Gauro, Eleanor Foley, Spencer Dill, Kent Rissmiller, associate dean of The Global School, Mimi Sheller, dean of The Global School, Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning Judges for President's IQP Award. (LR) Kris Wobbe, director of the Center for ProjectBased Learning, Mimi Sheller, dean of The Global School, Lisa Mullins, WBUR news anchor, Mark Boyer, professor emeritus, University of Connecticut Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Related Stories WPI Presidents IQP Awards Recognize Outstanding Student Pro... President's IQP Awards Presidents IQP Awards Event Recognizes Student Teams Who Ov... Topics Community Impact  ProjectBased Learning (PBL) DEPARTMENT(S) Integrative  Global Studies  Global Experience Office PROFILE(S) Kent Rissmiller  Kristin Wobbe  Mimi Sheller Community  Culture When visitors come to WPI, they notice right away that there is something special about the campus. While features like our charming urban setting and endearing goat mascot certainly make an impression, what really sets WPI apart are the people who make up our community. Our students, faculty, and staff are an eclectic group of people with diverse backgrounds and interests, yet they all share WPIs spirit of collaboration and inclusive outlook. The result is a welcoming and supportive community where anyone can find their place and everyone feels at home. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left The Student Experience Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Community  Culture Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Student Voices WPI Traditions WPI Acronyms A Community of Support From the moment you first arrive on campus to the day you cross Earle Bridge to receive your diploma, weve got you covered. Our extensive resource and support network is focused on helping you succeedboth personally and academicallythroughout your WPI journey. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Discover more about the Center for WellBeing Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Student Development and Counseling Services Student Groups Celebrate Diversity WPIs approach to diversity, inclusion, and equity makes our campus a community where members feel an authentic sense of belonging. There are many opportunities on campus for students to connect with others who share their interests and experiencesfrom the Brazilian Student Association to the Gender Equality Club through programming and events and studentrun organizations. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Our student community Heres some things to know about the WPI community: Varied interests : WPI studentsand our faculty and staffare scientists, engineers, entrepreneurs, business leaders, and scholars who are passionate about advancing their knowledge and conducting meaningful research. Just as significantly, they are athletes, musicians, actors, gamers, writers, volunteers, and others who share their talents and express themselves in unique ways. Get to know some of our students . The perfect size: WPIs mediumsized community is large enough to include representation from many cultures and offer a wide range of activities, yet small enough so that students arent treated like numbers and are able to make impacts in the ways that matter to them. Traditional yet innovative : The WPI community holds many treasured traditions that extend as far back as the institutions founding in 1865. At the same time, WPIs students, faculty, and staff are continually inspired by our history of milestonesfrom Robert Goddards creation of the first modern rocket to WPIs early integration of projectbased educationto innovate and push the limits of what is possible. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote I love the people. Between the students and faculty, I found an amazing group of people who support me both academically and personally. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Tessa L. PhD in Mechanical Engineering Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Every person I talk to at WPI has been compassionate and has something passionate to talk about. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Jack A. BS in Electrical  Computer Engineering and Data Science Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote I like being in an environment where I can meet and work with a lot of individuals with many talents and interests. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Samantha A. BS in Industrial Engineering Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Students can dream big and for the rest, WPI will help them figure it out. I have never been at a school that is so proactive in helping you achieve the goals you have set for yourself. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Darren C. PhD in Computational Media Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote I like how WPI offers a balanced student life  offering many resources to help you succeed, while keeping your mental health a priority. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Laura M. BS in Mechanical Engineering Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote WPI attracts worldclass faculty that are truly passionate about what they are teaching. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Dan G. BS in Computer Science Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote I love the people. Between the students and faculty, I found an amazing group of people who support me both academically and personally. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Tessa L. PhD in Mechanical Engineering Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Every person I talk to at WPI has been compassionate and has something passionate to talk about. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Jack A. BS in Electrical  Computer Engineering and Data Science Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote I like being in an environment where I can meet and work with a lot of individuals with many talents and interests. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Samantha A. BS in Industrial Engineering Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Students can dream big and for the rest, WPI will help them figure it out. I have never been at a school that is so proactive in helping you achieve the goals you have set for yourself. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Darren C. PhD in Computational Media Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote I like how WPI offers a balanced student life  offering many resources to help you succeed, while keeping your mental health a priority. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Laura M. BS in Mechanical Engineering Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote WPI attracts worldclass faculty that are truly passionate about what they are teaching. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Dan G. BS in Computer Science Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote I love the people. Between the students and faculty, I found an amazing group of people who support me both academically and personally. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Tessa L. PhD in Mechanical Engineering Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right The WPI Alliance From marching in the Worcester Pride parade to handing out genderbread cookies on the national Transgender Day of Visibility, the studentrun WPI Alliance seeks to provide a voice for students of all sexual orientations and gender identities. Keep an eye out for Alliance members observing events like Asexual and Aromantic Awareness Week, National Coming Out Day, and LGBTQIA History Month. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right LGBTQ Support Services Beyond Campus No description of the WPI community would be complete without touching on our hometown of Worcester. After all, it is part of our school name. The historic city is home to nine institutions of higher education and enables students to take advantage of all the perks of a college town, including lively cultural events, museums and restaurants, and dozens of parks and playgrounds. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Explore Worcester News Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More News The Month in Photos: January 2025 February 18, 2025 The Month in Photos: November 2024 December 06, 2024 The Month in Photos: October 2024 November 14, 2024 September 2024 Month In Photos October 10, 2024 Diversity  Inclusion Multicultural Affairs International Student and Scholars Office Oasis Multicultural Center 100 Things to Do at WPI Degrees  Certificates All Bachelor Minor Certificate Master PhD Online all bachelor minor certificate master phd online Cancel All a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z Degree is also offered online. Area of Study Bachelor Minor Certificate Master PhD Actuarial Mathematics bachelor Aerospace Engineering bachelor minor master phd This degree is also offered Online . Applied Mathematics master Applied Physics bachelor master phd Applied Statistics master Architectural Engineering bachelor minor Architecture master Artificial Intelligence Online certificate master This degree is also offered Online . Artificial Intelligence in Business certificate This degree is also offered Online . Astrophysics minor Biochemistry bachelor minor master phd Bioinformatics  Computational Biology bachelor minor master phd Biology minor Biology  Biotechnology bachelor master phd Biomanufacturing Online certificate Biomedical Engineering bachelor master phd Biomedical Engineering (MEng) master Bioscience Management Online master Biotechnology master This degree is also offered Online . Business bachelor minor Business Administration Online master phd Business Administration in Analytics master Business Analytics master This degree is also offered Online . Chemical Engineering bachelor master phd Chemical Engineering (Professional MS) master Chemistry bachelor minor master phd Chemistry: Medicinal Plant Focus Online master Civil Engineering bachelor master phd Civil Engineering (MEng) master Community Climate Adaptation master Computational Media phd Computer Science bachelor minor certificate master phd Computer Science (MCS) master This degree is also offered Online . Construction Project Management certificate master This degree is also offered Online . This degree is also offered Online . Creative Writing minor Cybersecurity certificate master This degree is also offered Online . Data Science bachelor minor certificate master phd This degree is also offered Online . This degree is also offered Online . Economics bachelor minor Electrical  Computer Engineering bachelor minor certificate master phd This degree is also offered Online . This degree is also offered Online . Electrical  Computer Engineering (MEng) master English minor Entrepreneurship minor Environmental  Sustainability Studies bachelor minor Environmental Engineering bachelor master This degree is also offered Online . Executive PhD phd Explosion Protection Engineering certificate master This degree is also offered Online . This degree is also offered Online . Financial Technology (FinTech) bachelor minor certificate master phd Fire Protection Engineering minor certificate master phd This degree is also offered Online . This degree is also offered Online . Foreign Language minor Gender, Sexuality  Womens Studies minor Global Health master Global Public Health minor History minor Humanities  Arts bachelor minor Industrial Engineering bachelor minor Industrial Mathematics master Information Security Management certificate Information Systems and Technologies bachelor minor Information Technology certificate master This degree is also offered Online . Innovation with User Experience (IUX) Online certificate This degree is also offered Online . Integrated STEM Education Online master This degree is also offered Online . Interactive Media  Game Design (MFA) master Interactive Media  Game Development bachelor minor master Interactive Media  Game Development (BA) bachelor International  Global Studies bachelor minor Latin American  Caribbean Studies minor Law  Technology minor Learning Sciences  Technologies master phd Liberal Arts  Engineering bachelor Life Sciences Management Online certificate Management master Management Engineering bachelor Manufacturing Engineering minor certificate master phd This degree is also offered Online . This degree is also offered Online . Materials minor Materials Process Engineering master Materials Science  Engineering master phd This degree is also offered Online . Mathematical Sciences bachelor phd Mathematics minor Mathematics for Educators (MME) master Mathematics for Educators (MMED) master Mechanical Engineering bachelor minor master phd This degree is also offered Online . Mechanical Engineering for Technical Leaders (METL) Online certificate Media Arts minor Music minor Nanoscience minor Neuroscience master Nuclear Science  Engineering certificate Operations and Supply Chain Analytics (MS) master This degree is also offered Online . Philosophy and Religion minor Physics bachelor minor master phd Physics for Educators master Power Systems Engineering Online certificate Power Systems Engineering (MEng) Online master Power Systems Management Online certificate Online master Psychology bachelor minor Robotics Engineering bachelor minor certificate master phd This degree is also offered Online . This degree is also offered Online . Science and Engineering for Development minor Science and Technology for Innovation in Global Development certificate master Secure Programming Training for Software Developers certificate Society, Technology  Policy bachelor Statistics minor phd Supply Chain Analytics Online certificate Supply Chain Essentials Online certificate Sustainability Engineering minor System Dynamics minor Systems Engineering Online certificate Online master Online phd Systems Engineering Leadership Online master Teaching Cyber Security for High School Teachers certificate This degree is also offered Online . Theatre minor Writing  Rhetoric minor Writing (Professional) bachelor WPI encourages the formation of interdisciplinary graduate programs to meet new professional needs or the special interests of particular students. Learn more about graduate interdisciplinary programs in the Graduate Catalog. Faculty In addition to being passionate about teaching, WPI professors are committed researchers and scholars with worldclass credentials. They bring their research into the classroom and give students an opportunity to get involved. Like their students, they dont just believe in making the world a better place through science and technologytheyre doing it. WPI professors inspire and encourage their students as they drive them to higher achievement and greater success. They dont give students the answers; they show them how to find them. Office of the Provost Faculty Governance Resources for Researchers Accessibility Information for Faculty Are you interested in accessibility resources available for faculty? The Office of Accessibility Services has accessibility information for faculty . Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Academics Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Faculty Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Faculty Advising Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Faculty Advising Resources Student Counseling Morgan Teaching  Learning Center Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Teaching and Learning Faculty Mentoring and Development About Us Grants  Awards Meet the Team Project Resources Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Interactive Qualifying Project Advising Endowed Professorships Faculty Directory Faculty Awards WPI is proud to have some of the most talented and respected faculty in their respective fields and industries. Our faculty are regularly recognized for their successes by entities such as the National Academy of Engineering, the National Science Foundation, the Fulbright Program, and many professional societies. We also recognizes excellence through a variety of award programs that provide the opportunity to acknowledge faculty and to celebrate successes and share accomplishments with the entire WPI community. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right View Recent Awards Meet WPI's Faculty Experts Learn more about our experts and senior administrators who are leaders in a wide range of fields, and are available to offer ideas, opinions, analysis, and commentary. From issues facing higher education to current events, trending topics, and breaking news, our WPI profiles contain detailed information to help those looking for expert input or analysis to find the most appropriate person for their needs. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Discover the Expert Database Announcements Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Announcements Employee Wellness: Yoga D Term FY25 February 28, 2025 Division of Talent  Inclusion Submit Student Achievements to Merit Pages February 28, 2025 Know Your Rights Presentation (LGBTQIA) Video Recording February 11, 2025 Equal Opportunity  Outreach CALL FOR NOMINATIONS: Board of Trustees' Award for Outstanding Staff Member 2025 January 21, 2025 Division of Talent  Inclusion News Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More News WPI Researchers to Develop Robotic Arm for Wheelchairs February 18, 2025 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  04:53 Your browser does not support the audio element. Leveraging a Lifelong Love of Learning January 15, 2025 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  07:48 Your browser does not support the audio element. Robert Hyers Is Named a Fellow of Minerals, Metals, and Materials Society November 25, 2024 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  02:27 Your browser does not support the audio element. Jamal Yagoobi Leads Project Using Light to Improve Drying Technologies November 20, 2024 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  08:37 Your browser does not support the audio element. Are you a faculty member with a recently published book? Visit this page to discover ideas for promoting your book to the WPI community and beyond. Calendar Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Events Mar 12 SOAR Series Panel 1: IndustryUniversity Collaborative Research Centers (IUCRC) Clock Icon of clock 12:00 pm to 1:00 pm Mar 21 SOAR Series Panel 2: Manufacturing USA Institutes (MII) Clock Icon of clock 11:00 am to 12:00 pm Aug 10 Know Your Rights Presentation (LGBTQIA)  Students Video Recording Clock Icon of clock All day  Rubin Campus Center International Faculty  Scholars Services Employers  Partners Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right The Office of Corporate Partnerships at WPI organizes and delivers an array of services that cater to the needs of business partners. Through a holistic model and approach, our goal is to help businesses solve issues related to workforce and talent development, research, and product development, and to impact their social responsibility programs through philanthropic engagement. Blending these three core elements of university partnership strategies yields greater depth and breadth to organizational partnerships and increases visibility on campus with faculty and students. Strategic partnerships are built with us, growing partners dive deeper with us, and new partners explore opportunities with us. The corporate partnerships office is driven to support the success of our students and faculty while creating value for our external partners. Let's Connect Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Corporate Partnerships Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Employers  Partners Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Sponsor a Student Project Engineering Ambassadors Experiential PhD Corporate Education and Workforce Development Programs CONTACT Phone: 5088315831 corporatewpi.edu Recruiting  Workforce Development Corporate Education WPI's Online and Corporate Education team specializes in the learning needs of working professionals and is committed to helping working professionals achieve their education goals. Learn about our Online or Corporate programs. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Corporate Education Recruit Talent WPI alumni can be found across the globe as highly skilled STEM and business professionals, inspired humanist engineers, and impactful leaders of industry. Our alumni are highly knowledgeable, work effectively in teams, think creatively, understand their chosen fields, and are ready to make an impact on day one. Learn how to Recruit Talent at Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Recruit Talent Sponsor a Student Project Our distinct projectbased approach to education transforms our students into highly skilled, teamoriented, globally aware problem solvers, who are ready to dive right into your workplace and produce tangible results. Learn how to sponsor a student project and engage the fresh perspective of a dedicated student team and its expert faculty advisor. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Sponsor a Student Project Engineering Ambassadors WPIs Engineering Ambassadors program addresses the challenge companies have in recruiting diverse and talented worldclass engineers. Through the ambassador program, top undergraduate students majoring in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) fields are professionally polished to conduct high school outreach and handson programs to encourage young students on behalf of your company. Learn how to sponsor an Engineering Ambassador . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Engineering Ambassadors Corporate Education WPI's Online and Corporate Education team specializes in the learning needs of working professionals and is committed to helping working professionals achieve their education goals. Learn about our Online or Corporate programs. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Corporate Education Recruit Talent WPI alumni can be found across the globe as highly skilled STEM and business professionals, inspired humanist engineers, and impactful leaders of industry. Our alumni are highly knowledgeable, work effectively in teams, think creatively, understand their chosen fields, and are ready to make an impact on day one. Learn how to Recruit Talent at Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Recruit Talent Sponsor a Student Project Our distinct projectbased approach to education transforms our students into highly skilled, teamoriented, globally aware problem solvers, who are ready to dive right into your workplace and produce tangible results. Learn how to sponsor a student project and engage the fresh perspective of a dedicated student team and its expert faculty advisor. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Sponsor a Student Project Engineering Ambassadors WPIs Engineering Ambassadors program addresses the challenge companies have in recruiting diverse and talented worldclass engineers. Through the ambassador program, top undergraduate students majoring in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) fields are professionally polished to conduct high school outreach and handson programs to encourage young students on behalf of your company. Learn how to sponsor an Engineering Ambassador . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Engineering Ambassadors Corporate Education WPI's Online and Corporate Education team specializes in the learning needs of working professionals and is committed to helping working professionals achieve their education goals. Learn about our Online or Corporate programs. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Corporate Education Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Research, Technology  Innovation Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship WPI has a long history of innovation and inventions; in fact, our percentage of patents far outpaces many other universities our size . We can connect your company with opportunities to license and deploy innovations and intellectual property held by WPI faculty and students. This allows access to the latest technology for commercial gain and to be part of a community that supports big ideas. We offer various programs and resources for every kind of entrepreneur, including opportunities to engage with innovative and entrepreneurialminded WPIaffiliated startups or to coach, advise, and mentor budding entrepreneurs. Learn more about the Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Research at WPI WPI's more than 500 full and parttime faculty members are dedicated to using their talents, expertise, and intellectual curiosity to solve the most complex global challenges. Learn more about Research at WPI . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Research at WPI Core Research Facilities WPI offers stateoftheart research facilities and laboratories that are open to external users. Learn more to see how we can help to advance your idea. Explore our stateoftheart campus spaces . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Core Research Facilities Office of Sponsored Programs The Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) partners with WPI's faculty and staff throughout the life cycle of a sponsored research project. From assisting in proposal development and reviewing and submitting funding applications to negotiating and accepting awards and issuing subawards, OSP provides guidance throughout the award and interprets applicable regulatory requirements to ensure that research conducted is in compliance . Learn more about how OSP can take your project to the next level. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Office of Sponsored Programs Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship WPI has a long history of innovation and inventions; in fact, our percentage of patents far outpaces many other universities our size . We can connect your company with opportunities to license and deploy innovations and intellectual property held by WPI faculty and students. This allows access to the latest technology for commercial gain and to be part of a community that supports big ideas. We offer various programs and resources for every kind of entrepreneur, including opportunities to engage with innovative and entrepreneurialminded WPIaffiliated startups or to coach, advise, and mentor budding entrepreneurs. Learn more about the Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Research at WPI WPI's more than 500 full and parttime faculty members are dedicated to using their talents, expertise, and intellectual curiosity to solve the most complex global challenges. Learn more about Research at WPI . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Research at WPI Core Research Facilities WPI offers stateoftheart research facilities and laboratories that are open to external users. Learn more to see how we can help to advance your idea. Explore our stateoftheart campus spaces . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Core Research Facilities Office of Sponsored Programs The Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) partners with WPI's faculty and staff throughout the life cycle of a sponsored research project. From assisting in proposal development and reviewing and submitting funding applications to negotiating and accepting awards and issuing subawards, OSP provides guidance throughout the award and interprets applicable regulatory requirements to ensure that research conducted is in compliance . Learn more about how OSP can take your project to the next level. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Office of Sponsored Programs Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship WPI has a long history of innovation and inventions; in fact, our percentage of patents far outpaces many other universities our size . We can connect your company with opportunities to license and deploy innovations and intellectual property held by WPI faculty and students. This allows access to the latest technology for commercial gain and to be part of a community that supports big ideas. We offer various programs and resources for every kind of entrepreneur, including opportunities to engage with innovative and entrepreneurialminded WPIaffiliated startups or to coach, advise, and mentor budding entrepreneurs. Learn more about the Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Community  Entrepreneurial Outreach Innovation  Entrepreneurship By working to integrate entrepreneurial principles across the university curriculum, WPI supports vital pathways to new venture formations. Be it in business, social or nonprofit arenas, our students are inspired and encouraged to engage in technologybased ventures and are wellprepared to support your organization in professional practice, innovation, and civic contribution. Learn more about IE at WPI . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Innovation  Entrepreneurship Government  Community Relations The Office of Government  Community Relations works to build and maintain mutually beneficial relationships between WPI and local, state, and federal governments, as well as the local Worcester community. The office is instrumental in obtaining research funding in areas of strategic importance to WPI and also provides students with opportunities to work in and contribute to the city. Learn more about the office . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Government  Community Relations Innovation  Entrepreneurship By working to integrate entrepreneurial principles across the university curriculum, WPI supports vital pathways to new venture formations. Be it in business, social or nonprofit arenas, our students are inspired and encouraged to engage in technologybased ventures and are wellprepared to support your organization in professional practice, innovation, and civic contribution. Learn more about IE at WPI . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Innovation  Entrepreneurship Government  Community Relations The Office of Government  Community Relations works to build and maintain mutually beneficial relationships between WPI and local, state, and federal governments, as well as the local Worcester community. The office is instrumental in obtaining research funding in areas of strategic importance to WPI and also provides students with opportunities to work in and contribute to the city. Learn more about the office . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Government  Community Relations Innovation  Entrepreneurship By working to integrate entrepreneurial principles across the university curriculum, WPI supports vital pathways to new venture formations. Be it in business, social or nonprofit arenas, our students are inspired and encouraged to engage in technologybased ventures and are wellprepared to support your organization in professional practice, innovation, and civic contribution. Learn more about IE at WPI . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Innovation  Entrepreneurship Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Philanthropy  Gifts in Kind Beyond These Towers "Beyond These Towers" is WPI's largest fundraising campaign yet. It's also the first such campaign to combine philanthropy and sponsored research. The theme of the campaign is a nod to the towers of WPIs first two buildings, enduring symbols of its guiding philosophy of theory and practice. Learn more about how "Beyond These Towers" will transform WPI. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Beyond These Towers Foundation Relations WPI's University Advancement team engages with business, foundation, and corporate philanthropists in diverse ways. Whether partnering on industryspecific scholarships or coordinating giftsinkind, we can work together to find the best opportunity to support corporate philanthropically. For corporate philanthropy, reach out to corporatewpi.edu . For individual philanthropy, reach out to givingwpi.edu . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Foundation Relations Beyond These Towers "Beyond These Towers" is WPI's largest fundraising campaign yet. It's also the first such campaign to combine philanthropy and sponsored research. The theme of the campaign is a nod to the towers of WPIs first two buildings, enduring symbols of its guiding philosophy of theory and practice. Learn more about how "Beyond These Towers" will transform WPI. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Beyond These Towers Foundation Relations WPI's University Advancement team engages with business, foundation, and corporate philanthropists in diverse ways. Whether partnering on industryspecific scholarships or coordinating giftsinkind, we can work together to find the best opportunity to support corporate philanthropically. For corporate philanthropy, reach out to corporatewpi.edu . For individual philanthropy, reach out to givingwpi.edu . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Foundation Relations Beyond These Towers "Beyond These Towers" is WPI's largest fundraising campaign yet. It's also the first such campaign to combine philanthropy and sponsored research. The theme of the campaign is a nod to the towers of WPIs first two buildings, enduring symbols of its guiding philosophy of theory and practice. Learn more about how "Beyond These Towers" will transform WPI. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Beyond These Towers Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Lets connect Student Resources  Support Student Health  Wellbeing HELP. Its OK to need it. Its important to ask for it. Heres how to find it. WPI is committed to making sure our students have the resources and support they need to thrive and succeed, both academically and personally. Center for WellBeing Health Services Student Development  Counseling Center Office of Accessibility Services Are You Concerned About a Student? Take action now: Im Concerned About a Student Form Helpful Links Helpful Links Email Icon of a letter Email Access Instructions Academic Catalog Icon of building Academic Catalogs Calendar Icon of calendar Academic Calendar Academic Advising Icon of graduation cap Academic Advising A Resource For Students, By Students Check Out Gompeis Guide Have questions about life at WPI? Check out Gompei s Guide for resources, success tips, and the best study spots written by students, for students. Firstyear students get a copy, and others can pick one up at the Campus Center information desk. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read Gompei's Guide Scroll Down, or Select Resources About: Academic Support Academic Planning Help with Homework Project Work Tools You'll Need Community  Culture Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Student Life and Support on Campus Outside the Classroom Health  Wellness Health  Wellness Athletics Im Concerned About a Student Form Important Info FirstYear  Transfer Students Graduate Students Parents and Guardians Campus Safety, Transportation, and General Information Finances, Financial Aid, Work Study, Student Accounts Help with Your Educational Path Academic Support Find resources to assist with coursework and projects, planning your academic path, finding an advisor, global study abroad, and instructions for managing email, Canvas, Workday accounts and more. Academic Planning Find information to help with academic success, plan your academic career, and discover ways to share your learning and accomplishments. Academic Advising : Meet with an advisor to create an academic plan that will help you reach your goals. Academic Calendar : Get the latest calendar for each academic year. Course Schedules : Check out when different courses meet and see if they fit into your desired schedule. Academic Catalog : Find information on academic requirements and courses of study. Undergraduate Studies : Navigate your academic career with links to program tracking sheets, grading and university policies, course schedules, and planning. Registrars Office : Get in touch for a copy of your academic record and more. Training for PLAs, Graders, and Other Course Assistants : If you're part of one of these groups, sign up for any required training sessions here. Online Student Course Reports (OSCAR) : Find information on course and faculty data based on historical student course reports. Help with Homework There are lots of resources and support available, so reach out for help with your assignments, projects, and research. Reach out earlydon't wait for small issues to become big problems. Academic Resources Center : Sign up for individual and group tutoring sessions for math, science, and computer science. Faculty Directory: Reach out to your professors for questions, information on office hours, and more. Staff Directory : Search for staff in every department and division on campus. Gordon Library : 250,000 print volumes, 1,000,000 ebooks, 20,000 student project reports, 250 scholarly databasesand help from our expert library staffall in one place. Writing Center : Work with a writing tutor to get help with course papers, presentations, dissertations, jobrelated documents, and more at any stage of the writing process. Math Tutoring Center : Connect with tutors for assistance with various mathrelated assignments. Physics Help Desk : Get support with physics homework and projects. Research Experiences : Explore different opportunities for project and lab research work for undergraduates. Project Work Want to know more about completing your IQP or MQP? Learn about working with a team or preparing for your project. Global Travel Guidance : Get more information on how to prepare for your trip to a project center. OffCampus Projects : Review resources for offcampus project opportunities. OnCampus Projects : Review resources for oncampus project opportunities. Project Center Directory : Explore a full list of WPI's project centers. The Project Center Experience : Get a better idea of what to expect at a project center through immersive coverage of projects in Albania, Bar Harbor, and Boston. The SWEET Center : Looking for teamwork support and advice when completing a project? The S upporting W PI through E ffective and E quitable T eamwork Center has got you covered. Project Workspaces: Discover more about the Makerspace and other centers, labs, and facilities that provide resources and space for research project work. Tools Youll Need Use these important links to get connected to the WPI community and find technical support. Academic Technology Center : Visit the ATC for poster printing, renting AV equipment, participating in AV workshops, and more. Canvas : Get access to content and other projects for your courses. The Hub : Log into the Hub for tech updates, todo lists, alerts, and other information. IT Services : Computer or internet troubles? Reach out to IT for assistance. Mobile App : Download the WPI mobile app for the latest news at your fingertips. Email : Access your WPI email inbox here. Workday : Use Workday to register for courses each term. MyWPI : Find clubs to join and other student activities and events happening on campus. Fostering a Sense of Belonging Community  Culture Find supportive groups, spiritual resources, accessibility information, dining services and Goat Bucks, career development and leadership, student clubs and government, and more. Community, Inclusion and Belonging WPI continually works to foster a sense of belonging and inclusion for a diverse student population. Accessibility Services : Get more information on academic, dining, and housing accommodations on campus. Student Community Centers : Gather in the designated supportive spaces around campus for community resources. Collegiate Religious Center : Connect for spiritual advising, reserve a multifaith meeting space, prayer room, mindfulness space, or vegan kitchen area, get more information on the Gompei's Closet clothing pantry, and note upcoming religious holidays and celebrations. Community, Inclusion, and Belonging : Get more information on WPI's values focused on civility and respect, applicable programs and organizations, the locations of genderinclusive restrooms on campus, and more. International Student Life : Visit the International House for visa and immigration help, information on WPI's ESL program, tax workshops, general counseling, and more. LGBTQIAP Support : Get more information on the locations of genderinclusive restrooms on campus, resources on how to change your name andor gender in university records, group counseling, The Alliance , and more. OASIS Multicultural Center : Reserve a space for your next meeting, host an outdoor barbeque, or learn more about the supportive student organizations on campus. Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural Education (ODIME) : Request prayer spaces, or food pantry items, find free menstrual hygiene products, learn more about the office's signature events and programs, or visit them in the OASIS Multicultural Center. How to Report a Bias Incident : Report instances of misconduct, discrimination, harassment, bias, or hate crimes. Student Life and Support on Campus Find answers to navigating all aspects of campus life. ID Services : Did you lose your WPI ID or have one that isn't working right? Get instructions on obtaining a new one. Dining Services : From Morgan Dining Hall to the Rubin Campus Center, check out the oncampus dining options. Adding Funds to Your Student ID (Goat Bucks) : See where you can use Goat Bucks on and off campus, and add Goat Bucks to your student ID. The Housing  Residential Experience Center : Get your questions answered on all things related to living on campus. Reflection, Quiet, and Prayer Spaces : Learn about oncampus places to slow down, including dedicated prayer spaces and private spaces where you can chat with a physician, therapist, chaplain, or loved ones. Rubin Campus Center : Review the Rubin Campus Center's hours of operation, sign up to table sit, submit content for the digital screens, and more. Submit a Work Order : Something not working in your residence hall or another building on campus? Let us know! WPI Bookstore : Order textbooks and other supplies for your courses, as well as WPI gear. Accessibility Services : Get more information on academic, dining, and housing accommodations on campus. Career Development Center : Sign up for resume critiques and interview workshops, explore opportunities to meet and network with employers, and make a Handshake account to apply for jobs, internships, and coops. Sign up for resume critiques and interview workshops, explore opportunities to meet and network with employers, and make a Handshake account to apply for jobs, internships, and coops. Merit Pages : Share your accomplishments so theyre visible to future employers and colleagues. Outside the Classroom Discover all the ways to get involved at WPI. Innovation  Entrepreneurship : Jump into innovation and entrepreneurship through skillbased workshops, seed funding, mentorship, innovation challenges, networking opportunities, handson projects, and more. Club Resources : Get more information on leading, joining, or maybe even starting a club at WPI. Getting Involved : Explore MyWPI to find clubs to join and other student activities and events happening on campus. Leadership Programs : Take advantage of some of the programs, initiatives, and services offered by WPI to enhance and develop leadership skills. Student Activities Office : Reach out for advice and guidance on how clubs can succeed on campus. Student Government Association : Connect with WPI's undergraduate Student Government Association. 100 Things to Do On and OffCampus : Find great places to explore, eat, or shop in the Worcester area, as well as sporting and cultural events, museums, and recreational opportunities. Supporting the Whole Student Health  Wellness Find information about caring for your mental, emotional and physical health through counseling and health services, athletics, and wellness groups. Find the Im Concerned About a Student form. Health  Wellness From mental health counseling to urgent medical care, WPI cares about students mental, emotional, and physical wellbeing. AfterHours Health Care: Urgent medical attention for students at night and on weekends. Students who need afterhours mental health support can call ProtoCall at 5088315540 to speak with a counselor. Be Well Together : Browse a list of programs, offices, hotlines, and other resources to support mental health and wellbeing. Center for WellBeing : Explore the CWB's programs, check out a list of wellnessrelated clubs and organizations, and get more information about becoming a Peer WellBeing Ambassador. Student Development  Counseling Center : Sign up for a counseling appointment, join a support group, register for peer support or a training session as part of the Student Support Network, take an online screening, or get mental health support afterhours. Student Health Portal : Upload your required health forms and immunizations. Student Health Services : Schedule a medical appointment or get more information on medical resources available on campus. Im Concerned About a Student (WPI Care Team) : Fill out this form if you're worried about a student, and the Dean of Students Office will address the concern. Athletics Student athletes or those looking for physical education opportunities can find more information here. Physical Education, Recreation  Athletics : Find information on physical education at WPI, discover the Sports  Rec Center, or learn more about varsity athletics. Varsity Athletics Intramural Sports Program WPIs Physical Education Requirement : Learn about physical education opportunities and find a list of courses that fulfill the PE requirement. I'm Concerned About a Student Form Fill out this form if you're worried about a student, and the Dean of Students Office will address the concern. Useful Resources for Students and their Families and Guardians Important Info for Students  Parents From campus shuttle services and financial aid to the graduate and firstyear student experiences, find all the information you need. First Year  Transfer students Get to know the WPI community and find your place here. Connections Program : Connect with other firstgeneration college students and those who are underrepresented in STEM during this preorientation program designed to help navigate through the college transition. This program is open to all incoming students. Insight Program : Get personal and academic support as you transition to college with this program specifically tailored for firstyear students. First Year Experience : Find important and useful resources specifically for firstyear student success. WPI Acronyms : We Prefer Initials at WPI. Learn about all the ways WPI uses acronyms. New Student Onboarding Hub : Use this tool to stay on track with first year onboarding tasks. Transfer Students : Learn more about WPI and find your path to success as a transfer student. Graduate Students Discover how to navigate your academic career and connect with the WPI community as a graduate student. Graduate and Professional Studies : Discover additional educational opportunities. Graduate Student Resources : Learn about opportunities and support available to grad students. Graduate Student Government : Connect with WPI's Graduate Student Government and find ways to get involved. Resources for New Graduate Students : Get started on the path to success with your graduate education. Financial Aid : Get information about applying for financial aid and types of aid available, and access other forms related to financing your WPI education. Graduate Fellowship  Grant Writing : Review a list of current WPI and independent fellowships and scholarships Parents  Guardians Learn how parents and guardians can guide and support their student. Resources : Find ways to support your student as they navigate their college experience. Get more information about student life and important reminders for the academic year. Frequently Asked Questions from Parents and Guardians Im Concerned About a Student Form (WPI Care Team) : Fill out this form if you're worried about a student and the Dean of Students Office will address the concern. Parents  Friends Newsletter : Sign up to receive information about the latest news on campus, family events, and opportunities for students. Family Weekend : Save the date for this annual event celebrating and supporting students and their families on campus. Campus Safety, Transportation, and General Information Have an urgent matter or need to know how to get around? Find ways WPI protects and supports the community. Campus Police : Learn about campus safety, shuttles and transportation, parking, lost and found, campus investigations, and more. To call Campus Police for nonemergencies, dial 5433 on a campus phone or 5088315433 on an offcampus line or cell phone. Emergencies: Report emergencies andor criminal activity to Campus Police. On a campus phone, dial 5555 From an offcampus line or cell phone, dial 5088315555 To reach Worcester City Police, dial 911. After Hours Health Care Assistance : Get help with urgent medical issues at night and during weekends. Students who need afterhours mental health support can call Protocall at 5088315540 to speak with a counselor. Campus Transportation : Discover all the ways to get around campus, as well as various offcampus transportation options, including the free safety shuttle . Emergency Management : Find instructions on what to do in specific emergency situations on campus. Safety  Security : Learn more about campus safety notifications, safety while abroad, fire safety on campus, and more. Title IXSexual Misconduct Policy : Review WPI's sexual harassment and discrimination policies or report concerns about a Title IX violation. How to Report a Bias Incident : Report instances of misconduct, discrimination, harassment, bias, or hate crimes. Emergency Notifications and WeatherRelated Closings and Delays : Learn how to sign up for WPI Alerts, the universitys system for reaching all members of the community with timesensitive information during emergencies. Your WPI email will automatically be added but be sure to add your cell number and other contact details. Directions to WPI Interactive Campus Map Finances, Financial Aid, Work Study, Student Accounts Learn about financing your WPI education and discover opportunities for student employment. Bursar's OfficeStudent Accounts : Work with the Bursar's Office to resolve outstanding balances for tuition, housing, meal plans, health insurance, and any other applicable fees. Federal Work Study Program : If you've received Federal Work Study as part of your financial aid, learn more about the program and how to apply for applicable oncampus jobs. Financial Aid : Get information on applying for financial aid and types of aid available, and access other forms related to financing your WPI education. Financial Support  Resources : Find urgent financial assistance and food insecurity resources. Student Employment : Browse job opportunities available during the academic year and the summer. PREVIOUS STORY WPI Researchers Turn Up the Heat on PFAS with Novel Removal Process NEXT STORY WPI Researchers to Develop Robotic Arm for Wheelchairs The Month in Photos: January 2025 February 18, 2025 Even though students were away until midmonth, campus was still busy in January. Between athletics events, welcoming new students to campus, and even championing some late BTerm events, our campus and staff photographers had a lot to capture in the first month of 2025. Were still basking in the glow of a recent demonstration of what teamwork can accomplish: Student teams in last falls Shelter the World Great Problems Seminar collaborated with the City of Worcester on a proposed homeless resource center. Seniors on both the mens and womens swimming and diving teams were honored at the Menck Invitational. Photo credit: Nicole Miller 24, MS 25 The start of the spring semester brings new graduate students to campus and WPI greets them wholeheartedly. Before heading out to classrooms and research labs, new students meet each other and faculty members during orientation events. January ended on a high note with the presentation of the prestigious Presidents IQP Awards for the top five 2024 Interactive Qualifying Projects (IQPs). Students were honored for outstanding projectbased research that explores issues at the intersection of science, technology, and human needs. At the womens track and field BU Terrier Classic , Rayna Thompson 28 powered to a collegiate best in the 60meter (7.97 seconds) and then logged the seventhfastest time in program history in the 200meter (25.77 seconds). Photo credit: Troy HendricksWPI Athletics WPI welcomed Liaohai Leo Chen as the new director of both PracticePoint , the universitys health care technology research and development facility, and the Biomanufacturing Education and Training Center at Gateway Park. Chen previously oversaw a 20 million surgical robotics training facility while at the University of Illinois Chicago and anticipates connecting students and faculty with startup companies and industry leaders. Learning about your project centers host country is part of the Global Projects Program experienceand its usually also a whole lot of fun. Students in the Monteverde, Costa Rica Project Center spent some time exploring the outdoors in their CTerm 2025 home . For more than two decades, VOX, WPIs student musical theatre company, has been a creative outlet and a community fixture. In January, the group again showed its production talents with the presentation of the CTerm show Ride the Cyclone in Alden Memorial. Jessi Hills dream to become a psychologist blossomed when she was 10 years oldand shes never wavered from that goal. As director of the Morgan Teaching and Learning Center and a professor in the Department of Social Science and Policy Studies , Hill noted in a recent QA that, WPI feels like this little haven of rationality where people are dedicated to student excellence. During the mens basketball win over Clark , Tim Reidy 25 posted a scoring career high of 22 pointsand then broke it two days later by netting 23 points in a game against Springfield. Photo credit: Abi Rauch 24 The end of BTerm brings the annual Poster Presentation Days to celebrate the accomplishments of firstyear students in the researchimmersive, twoterm Great Problems Seminar . After tackling challenging issues from clean water to recycling, students presented their findings to the community. WPI wrestler Ethan Edmondson 25 (pictured) and teammates posted victories during meets against Bridgewater State, Maine Maritime, and Wesleyan that contributed to one of the best season starts in the program's history. Photo credit: Geoff Riccio Related Stories The Month in Photos: January 2024 The Month in Photos: January 2022 The Month in Photos: November 2024 Accessibility Guidelines  Resources Report a barrier As a WPI faculty member, youll have a variety of learners in your teaching and interactions with students. Students are often as eager to learn as professors are to teach, but sometimes face challenges with access to the material, asking for help, or sharing their accommodation needs. This section provides you with some helpful resources to create a welcoming environment for students with disabilities and provide access to your course materials in various ways. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Accessibility Services for Faculty Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Accessibility Guidelines  Resources CONTACT Phone: 15088315000 PersonFirst Language and Etiquette Language can play an important role in making students feel comfortable approaching you to discuss accommodations. As a good rule of thumb, think about using personfirst language rather than putting the disability first. As an example, you would refer to a student with a common readingbased disability as a student with dyslexia instead of the dyslexic student. Individuals with disabilities are first and foremost people and do not want to be defined by hisher disability first. In fact, a student may choose not to share the specific disability with you but rather discuss functional limitations or how the disability will impact them in your classroom. Creating Accessible Materials A key point to course accessibility is to consider providing content multimodally so that students can access material in a variety of ways. You can create content to be friendly to screen readers or provide captions for those that may use them. OAS has created a Quick Tips and Tricks for Document Accessibility guide , though there are many additional resources available in this area. Below, we will focus on Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, Adobe Acrobat, and videos. Microsoft Word Creating an Accessible Office Document by Microsoft: selfpaced course providing handson practice for implementing accessibility features in the context of varying disabilities (3040 minutes) Creating Accessible Documents Video by Microsoft: short video providing a brief tutorial on creating alternative text for images, heading paragraph styles and using the accessibility checker (5 minutes) Microsoft Word by WebAIM (Web Accessibility in Mind): written tutorial including stepbystep instructions with pictures and screen shots. Topics cover how to use headings, alternative text for images, accessibility challenges with data tables, links, accessibility checker and how to convert a Word document to HTML and PDF. Adobe Acrobat PDF PDF Accessibility by WebAIM (Web Accessibility In Mind): written tutorial including stepbystep instructions with pictures and screen shots. Topics cover how to convert to accessible PDFs, use tags, use the Touch Up Reading Order tool as well as provide an overview of other tools and features. Creating an Accessible PDF in Adobe Acrobat by Algonquin College: short video reviewing how to use the Make Accessible feature, describing the document, recognizing text to OCR settings, and adding alternative text to images (4 minutes) Microsoft PowerPoint PowerPoint Accessibility by WebAIM (Web Accessibility In Mind): written tutorial including stepbystep instructions with pictures and screen shots. Topics covered include slide layouts, alternative text for images, accessibility challenges with data tables, links, outline and notes panels, accessibility checker, and converting PowerPoint to HTML and PDF. Creating Accessible PowerPoint Presentations Video by Algonquin College: short video reviewing stepbystep process to use builtin slide layouts, master slides, set tab orders, and avoid transitions and animations (5 minutes) Google Drive Grackle has a free addon to check for accessibility of Google Docs, Sheets or Slides. The free version has the ability to scan all documents in a Google Drive folder to assess whether they are accessible, or if accessibility improvements need to be made. Accessible Videos Creating Accessible Videos by Michigan State University: written guide providing instructions for creating captions and transcripts for videos. Links to related video tutorials and a free software download for transcribing materials are also provided. Additional Resources Disability Etiquette Guide : Created by the United Spinal Association to go into greater detail on interacting with people with disabilities overall as well as individuals with varying disability types The Faculty Room : Created by DOIT (Disabilities, Opportunities, Internetworking, and Technology) at the University of Washington to provide faculty with increased resources and best practices relating to students with disabilities in the classroom CAST : Nonprofit research and development organization that works to expand learning opportunities for all individuals, especially those with disabilities, through Universal Design for Learning Office of the Provost Faculty Directory Faculty Resources Office of Accessibility Services Financial Aid To determine the steps needed to apply for financial aid at WPI, please select your enrollment status from the pictures below. Firstyear Applicants Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Transfer Students Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Firstyear International Students Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Returning WPI Students Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Graduate Students Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Summer (E Term) Student Applicants Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Financing Your WPI Education The Office of Financial Aid is here to help you and your family understand funding that may be available to you. We offer aid to students and access to programs that can help lower the cost of college. These include merit scholarships, grants, oncampus employment, as well as loan programs and payment plans for families. Frequently asked questions can be found on our FAQ page here . Office Hours Monday through Friday 8:00am  4:30pm EST in Bartlett Center Phones: (508) 8315469 Monday through Friday 9:00am  4:00pm EST Fax: (508) 8315039 Email: finaidwpi.edu If you have questions, you will find all of our contact information on our Meet the Team page . Financial Literacy The Office of Financial Aid provides WPI students with important programs that build financial knowledge, develop fiscal responsibility, and help them to make informed decisions, both during college and after graduation. Be sure to check out these important resources and programs on our Financial Literacy website ! Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Admissions  Aid Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Financial Aid Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator Understanding Financial Aid Verification Process Award Conditions and Notes Financial Aid FAQ Types of Aid Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Scholarships  Grants Loans  Financing Options Emergency Assistance  Special Circumstances Graduate Assistantships Graduate Fellowships WPI Alumni Tuition Incentive CARES Act HEERF II HEERF III Applying for Aid Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down FirstYear Students Returning Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Students Attending Summer (E Term) Policies Forms Meet the Team Undergraduate Students New to WPI FAFSA Simplification Act CONTACT Location: Bartlett Center Phone: 5088315469 Fax: 5088315039 finaidwpi.edu Student Feedback Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right A Smart Investment WPI graduates earn some of the highest starting salaries in the nation and have excellent longterm career opportunities. Students come to WPI expecting to earn a good living as scientists and engineers or to succeed in business when they graduate. What they have found is so much more. Learn more about our formula for success. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Results K12 WPI is committed to providing STEM opportunities for all ages. With outreach, resources, or our popular oncampus activities, camps, and competitions, younger students can become familiar with everything that is possible on this exciting path. The university also hosts several K12 activities including an Invitational Mathematics Meet and an annual Water Rocket Competition WPI in the Summer WPI's summer activities include research experiences, sports and academic camps, summer courses, and more. Find out more and register for WPI's summer activities. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Stem Arrow Down Icon of a stem arrow pointing down K12 Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Robotics Resource Center Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Grants Program Management Robotics Competitions Staffing and Leadership Robotics Resource Center WPI blazed a trail in robotics when it became the first university in the nation to offer a bachelor's degree in robotics. Soon after, it became one of the few to offer graduate degrees in this discipline. But interest in robotics begins early and WPI's Robotics Resource Center helps improve access to robotics, STEM, and handson learning through highquality education and competitions for younger students. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Discover everything about the RRC PreCollegiate Outreach WPI offers programs throughout the year that inspire middle and high school students to learn more about STEM fields. With a handson approach and exciting topics, our precollegiate programs are an excellent way to gain insight into STEM. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Find out more STEM Education Center WPI's STEM Education Center is a valuable resource for teachers seeking new ways to introduce students to STEM ideas. W orking with current and future educators to guide relevant, integrated, and inclusive STEM learning experiences with their students and communities, our team is a source of guidance and resources. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Find out more Housing  Dining You will feel right at home in one of WPIs many residential communities. Youll be close to campus facilities, activities and services, and be part of the dynamic college environment where youll learn, grow, make lifelong friends, and prepare for your future. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left The Student Experience Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Housing  Dining Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Living On Campus Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Current Students Residential Communities Summer Housing Residence Hall Policies Fire Safety Affiliated Vendors Living Off Campus Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Tips  Planning Guides Dining Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down On the Go at Morgan Hall Food Allergies, Celiac Disease,  Other Dietary Concerns CONTACT Location: East Hall Phone: 5088315645 housingwpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Instagram Icon of Instagram symbol Facebook Icon of Facebook logo Housing  Residential Experience Center Dining Services Student Housing With just over 2,400 residential students, WPI has housing options from traditional to apartment and suitestyle arrangements. While our residence halls each have a different personality, they do share some features: Fully furnished rooms (bed, desk, desk chair, dresser, and closet) with connections for highspeed data network services. Students receive complimentary access to movie services via the Housing  Residential Experience Center. A resident advisor (RA) for each floor, trained to help students. They answer questions about WPI policies, complete work order requests, and offer support for emotional issues that invariably come up, such as homesickness, roommate conflicts, or stress. Need more reasons to live on campus? Here are 10 reasons to live on campus . There are also apartments and houses for rent within walking distance of the WPI campus. Learn more about living off campus . Student Dining Despite what you may think about college food, WPI has so many dining options that there's something for everyone (including glutenfree, vegan and vegetarianfriendly options). Cafeteriastyle dining in Morgan Commons offers a buffet breakfast, lunch, and dinner with several entree choices, a salad bar, and grilled food (like hamburgers and chicken). In the Campus Center , you'll find an array of fast food choices in our food court, including pizza, stir fry, chicken wings, madetoorder sandwiches, soups, salads, and burgers. If you'd like a more sophisticated menu, you can have lunch in style at Higgins House. For a quick breakfast or afternoon pickmeup, try Dunkin' Donuts in the Campus Center. All of WPIs dining services are managed by Chartwells . WPI Goatbucks Goatbucks are a convenient way to pay for food, services, and bookstore purchases using your WPI ID card. Students on residential plans may want to add Goatbucks when the Bonus Points allotted with their plans are depleted. Customers receive a 10 discount at all dining locations (excluding Dunkin' Donuts on campus and any offcampus dining locations). There is no minimum balance required in your Goatbucks account; you can add as little as 25 to your account, and it appears immediately on your account if you use the GET website or app. Get Goatbucks today . Residence Halls Dining Options Living in Worcester Safety  Security ID Services Calendar Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Events Dec 3  Mar 5 Returning Undergraduate Student Housing Selection Application Clock Icon of clock 11:00 am, 03 Dec to 5:00 pm, 05 Mar Mar 5 FINAL Roommate Meet  Greet Clock Icon of clock 4:00 pm to 5:00 pm  East Hall Announcements Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Announcements H.R.E. Center Donation Drives April 08, 2024 Housing Selection FAQs January 31, 2024 Housing  Residential Experience Center Snow Impact this Weekend: Residential Student Move In and More January 04, 2024 Dean of Students Introducing the Housing  Residential Experience Center October 25, 2023 Housing  Residential Experience Center Mindful Consideration: Diversity Calendar Resources for Planning Campus Programs (CTermSpring Semester) December 13, 2022 Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural Education (ODIME) Auntie Anne's  Planet Smoothie Closed for Repairs February 17, 2020 Dining Services Did you Know? Dining Services has an app? February 05, 2020 Dining Services Move In Day August 18: Parking and Traffic Impacts August 06, 2019 Housing  Dining WPI Dining Services Innovations Allow Students with Nut Allergies to Dine Safely November 15, 2018 Dining Services The FirstYear Experience Resources and support for incoming students Welcome to WPI! Keeping students engaged and motivated throughout their college experience is fundamental to a WPI education. That engagement starts in the months leading up to your arrival on campus, to New Student Orientation where you will meet upperclassmen, faculty, and staff and learn all about campus life, to immersion into our distinctive programs focused on a successful transition to college (in and out of the classroom), to initiation into universitylevel research and the projectbased curriculum. Get ready by reviewing the necessary documents to submit, exploring housing and dining opportunities, attending the orientation program, and more. Transfer Student Checklist Get Ready Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left The Student Experience Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up The FirstYear Experience Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Get Ready Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down New Student Orientation Events Resources and Programs Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Transition to College (Insight Program) Course Registration FAQs for Enrolled and FirstYear Students Communications CONTACT Office: First Year Program Phone: 5088315381 welcomewpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Instagram Icon of Instagram symbol Facebook Icon of Facebook logo TikTok Icon of TikTok Logo Youtube Icon of Youtube Logo LinkedIn Icon of LinkedIn Logo We are very excited for you to begin your journey at WPI. Please use the information found on this site to navigate your next steps and get ready to join us in the Fall! I am a... Incoming FirstYear Student Incoming FirstYear Student This website will guide you through the steps necessary to join us in August. You can start the process and return as often as you need to, but some items must be completed in a specific timeframecheck back regularly to make sure all tasks are completed on schedule. Visit New Student Onboarding Hub Incoming Transfer Student Incoming Transfer Student Need info on how to transition to WPI as a transfer student? Visit Accepted Transfer Student page Prospective Student Prospective Student Interested in a campus tour, the admissions process, and learning more about WPI? Visit Undergraduate Admissions Parent or Guardian Parent or Guardian Visit the parent and guardians' website for tips, resources, and information on how you can provide support throughout your student's transition to college. Parent  Guardian Page Schools, Departments  Programs Four Schools. One WPI. School of Arts  Sciences The Business School School of Engineering The Global School Alternate Name for Directory (fieldalternatedirectoryname) Department Title Phone Email Location Aerospace Engineering 5088315221 aerospacewpi.edu Higgins Laboratories Biology  Biotechnology 5088315543 biowebwpi.edu 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) Biomedical Engineering 5088315447 bmewebwpi.edu 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) The Business School 5088315218 businesswpi.edu Washburn Shops Chemical Engineering 5088315250 grchemengwpi.edu Goddard Hall Chemistry  Biochemistry 5088315371 chembiochemwpi.edu 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) Civil, Environmental,  Architectural Engineering 5088315294 ceewpi.edu Kaven Hall Computer Science 5088315357 cswpi.edu Fuller Laboratories Electrical  Computer Engineering 5088315231 ecesecwpi.edu Atwater Kent Laboratories Fire Protection Engineering 5088315593 fpewpi.edu 50 Prescott Street (Gateway Park II) Humanities  Arts 5088315246 huawebwpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Integrative  Global Studies 5088315547 globalwpi.edu Laurie A. Leshin Global Project Center Mathematical Sciences 5088315241 maquestionswpi.edu Stratton Hall Mechanical  Materials Engineering 5088315236 mmewpi.edu Higgins Laboratories Physical Education 5088315243 athleticswpi.edu Physics 5088315258 physicswpi.edu Olin Hall Robotics Engineering 5088316665 rbewpi.edu Unity Hall Social Science  Policy Studies 5088315296 sspswpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Program Title Phone Email Location Air Force Aerospace Studies 5088315747 afrotcwpi.edu 37 Institute Road Architectural Engineering 5088315530 ceewpi.edu Kaven Hall Artificial Intelligence (AI) 5088316220 aiwpi.edu Unity Hall Bioinformatics  Computational Biology 5088315357 bcbwpi.edu Unity Hall Cybersecurity cybersecuritywpi.edu Data Science 5088316220 datasciencewpi.edu Unity Hall Environmental Engineering 5088315294 evewpi.edu Kaven Hall Industrial Engineering 5088316117 Washburn Shops Interactive Media  Game Development 5088314977 imgdwpi.edu Fuller Laboratories International  Global Studies 5088315246 intlstudieswebwpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Learning Sciences  Technologies 5088315569 lstwpi.edu Unity Hall Liberal Arts  Engineering 5088315514 leswpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Manufacturing Engineering 5088315992 mfewpi.edu Washburn Shops Materials Process Engineering 5088315992 mrpwpi.edu Washburn Shops Materials Science  Engineering 5088315992 mtewpi.edu Washburn Shops Military Science 5088315268 armyrotcwpi.edu 27 Hackfeld Road Neuroscience 5088316564 neurosciencewpi.edu Gateway Park Power Systems 5088315301 onlinewpi.edu Professional Writing pwwpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Psychological  Cognitive Sciences 5088315296 sspswpi.edu Salisbury Laboratories Systems Engineering 5088315231 gradwpi.edu Atwater Kent Laboratories 2025 Graduate Commencement Ceremony Thursday, May 15, 2025 5:00 pm to 7:00 pm The 2025 Graduate Commencement ceremony will be held on Thursday, May 15, 2025 at 5:00 p.m at the DCU Center in Worcester, MA. While there is no charge for tickets, all guests must have a ticket to enter the arena. This event will be livestreamed on Youtube starting at 4:30 p.m. Check this website for regular updates and additional details. Add to Google Calendar Add to Calendar Audience(s) Current Students  Faculty  Parents  Staff Department(s): Commencement Phone Number: 5088316888 Email: commencementwpi.edu Graduate Admissions Request Information Apply Pursue a Graduate Degree at WPI We are here to help guide you in the graduate admissions process so you can make an informed decision on the best graduate degree for yourself and your career goals. Whether youre interested in pursuing an advanced masters postgraduate degree or a doctoral degree, we are here to help. In graduate programs at WPI, you will find: Research Opportunity and Purpose Worldrenowned and innovative new labs alike are made up of talented teams addressing realworld, interdisciplinary problems that impact communities and organizations right now. Graduate alumni from WPI embark on career paths in top professions with jobs in demand. Our graduate research is meaningful, purposeful, and looks to fill a need in society. Meaningful Mentorship WPI is a supportive community where one persons accomplishments reflects on the whole community. Our faculty members are committed to your professional graduate degree goals and want you to succeed beyond the classroom. The Office of Graduate Studies, too, provides workshops and professional development to diversify your skill set as a graduate student. Preparation for the Future of Work Graduate students from WPI are wellsupported from a variety of graduate programs and services and provided with opportunities to succeed with jobs in demand. In addition, you will work with peers and undergraduates, which provides opportunities for you to lead and mentor. Learn more about WPI and our academic divisions: School of Arts  Sciences School of Engineering S chool of Business The Global School Online Graduate Programs BSMS programs (for current WPI undergraduates and alumni who graduated within the last five years) Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Admissions  Aid Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Graduate Admissions Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Steps to Apply Application Requirements International Applicants Meet the Team Accepted Students Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down New International Graduate Students New Domestic Graduate Students New BSMS Graduate Students Visiting Graduate Students, Scholars, and Researchers Connect with Us During Virtual Office Hours CONTACT Location: 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) Phone: 5088315301 Fax: 5088315694 gradwpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Instagram Icon of Instagram symbol Facebook Icon of Facebook logo LinkedIn Icon of LinkedIn Logo Graduate  Professional Studies All Degrees  Certificates All Graduate Programs Inquire  Grad Certs and Masters Inquire  PhD Programs Inquire  Bachelor'sMaster's Application Requirements Check Application Status Important Dates (202526) Please note: These are general deadlines. Some graduate programs have specific deadlines. Summer '25 Fall '25 Spring '26 Summer '26 Start date May 22 ( Summer I) July 7 (Summer II) August 21 January 14 May 21 (Summer I) July 6 (Summer II) Priority application date NA January 15 October 15 NA Latest application date May 8 (Summer IFull Summer) June 23 (Summer II) August 7 December 15 May 7 (Summer IFull Summer) June 22 (Summer II) This is the priority deadline to be considered for funding. Applicants who apply after the priority deadline are still eligible for funding, pending availability. There is no additional application to complete for WPI funding opportunities. Upon completing the graduate application, you will be automatically considered for any financial assistance that you are eligible for. See "Rolling Admissions" below. Rolling Admissions You can submit your application anytime up until two weeks before the semester start date to be considered for admission. If you submit less than two weeks before, you can indicate on the application that you are willing to be considered for the next semester. All applicants are encouraged to submit their applications at least two months before their desired start date to ensure a smooth admissions process. International students should submit their applications as early as possible to allow for longer processing times. Ready to Apply? Review application requirements Steps to Apply Seek scholarships, fellowships, assistantships, and financial aid Start an application Email us for support WPI is proud to be the recipient of not one, but two National Science Foundation Research Traineeship programs. The programs provide exceptionally talented graduate students with specialized training and funding assistance to join careers at the forefront of technology and innovation. The programs are for graduate students in researchbased master's and doctoral degree programs in STEM. Grad Student Voices A student of your caliber will have choices when it comes to pursuing a graduate degree at WPI. Most of our graduate students could have gone anywhere, and they chose WPI for various reasons. Among them is the genuine interest in solving some of the world's big problems. Get to know our graduate studients on our student voices page. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Student Voices News and Events The Graduate Studies Team at WPI is on the road all the time from industry trade shows to career fairs and information sessions  both in person and virtual! Find us at one of the following events to learn more about our extensive suite of graduate programs. VIEW THE CALENDAR Visit us today! Guided Campus Tours  Explore the vibrant campus of Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) and discover why it's the perfect place to pursue your academic and professional goals! Join us for an inperson campus tour and experience firsthand the innovative spirit, stateoftheart facilities, and supportive community that make WPI unique. Your visit will be guided by one of our graduate student workers who is looking forward to answering any questions you may have. Whether you're interested in our renowned engineering programs or exploring new fields, a campus tour is the best way to envision your future at WPI. Sign up today and take the first step toward an exciting journey with us! Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Sign Up for a Campus Tour Student Research WPI Achieves R1 Status Highest classification for a research university Learn more Student research is the cornerstone of your STEM education at WPI. At our mediumsized research institution, youll experience the cuttingedge resources and industrystandard facilities that youd expect at a much larger universitywithout having to fight for your research position in a lab. WPI's emphasis on interdisciplinary research means you'll collaborate on projects with peers and faculty from different fieldsa unique benefit that will broaden your perspective, produce new discoveries, and enrich your educational experience overall. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Research Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Student Research Tackle realworld problems. Address critical global challenges. Shape the future. Undergraduate Student Research Research is a fundamental component of WPI's undergraduate curriculum. From a firstyear project that challenges students to address global issues to a major senior capstone project, students engage in journeys of discovery that prepare them to be leaders and innovators. View Undergraduate Research Graduate Student Research WPI graduate students are conducting research on everything from aerospace engineering to zeolite crystallization, and from the frontiers of materials science to latest advances in cybersecurity. Together, as part of research teams, they are addressing some of the greatest challenges of our time. View Graduate Research Combining Research  Education at WPI Research is a critical element of education at Worcester Polytechnic Institute. Because of this, WPI students  both undergraduate and graduate  have access to a variety of ways to immerse themselves in research that tackles important realworld problems. More Research News  My Innovation and Entrepreneurship experiences have not only enabled the technical testing behind many of my ideas, but have given me the confidence to share and excite others in pursuit of wild ideas.  Jeremy Trilling, BS, Robotics Engineering  WPI fosters research and learning. The excellent training and resources allow me to carry out innovative research and develop new ideas. I, therefore, have the ability to take risks and solve problems.  Mark Xatse, PhD, Biochemistry  It is an amazing feeling to see my research project culminate after nearly a year of hard work. My team and I faced varying challenges that we worked to overcome. It was extremely fulfilling.  Tessa Lytle, BSMS, Mechanical Engineering  My Innovation and Entrepreneurship experiences have not only enabled the technical testing behind many of my ideas, but have given me the confidence to share and excite others in pursuit of wild ideas.  Jeremy Trilling, BS, Robotics Engineering  WPI fosters research and learning. The excellent training and resources allow me to carry out innovative research and develop new ideas. I, therefore, have the ability to take risks and solve problems.  Mark Xatse, PhD, Biochemistry  It is an amazing feeling to see my research project culminate after nearly a year of hard work. My team and I faced varying challenges that we worked to overcome. It was extremely fulfilling.  Tessa Lytle, BSMS, Mechanical Engineering  My Innovation and Entrepreneurship experiences have not only enabled the technical testing behind many of my ideas, but have given me the confidence to share and excite others in pursuit of wild ideas.  Jeremy Trilling, BS, Robotics Engineering Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right CONTINUE EXPLORING Explore More Research Activities at WPI THE WPI PLAN PROJECTBASED LEARNING INTERACTIVE QUALIFYING PROJECT (IQP) MAJOR QUALIFYING PROJECT (MQP) UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH GRADUATE RESEARCH Online Graduate Programs Graduate  Professional Studies Request Information Apply At WPI, lifelong learning is an integral part of our educational philosophy. With personalized support and greater flexibility, our online graduate programs give working professionals access to WPIs distinctive projectbased educationand the realworld knowledge and skills needed to go further in their careers. Why Choose WPIs Online Graduate Programs? Offered through WPIs Graduate  Professional Studies , our approach to online education, including our emphasis on collaboration, promotes strong relationships with expert faculty and peers from around the world whose life and industry experiences will enhance the diversity of yours. Collegial academic experience includes a personal support system every step of the way to ensure your success, including a dedicated member of our online team who will guide you from application through graduation. A WPI degree carries significant prestige, market value, and job prospects, and the opportunity to join WPIs impressive network of more than 45,000 alumni from around the world. Integrate learnings from practical coursework into your work right away. Course start options available in spring, summer, and fall. Check out the academic term starts here. Graduate  Professional Studies Why Choose WPI? Graduate Student Experience Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Academics Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Online Graduate Programs Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down How Online Learning Works Online Degrees  Certificates State Authorization Meet the Team Graduate Admissions Student Resources Steps to Apply CONTACT Phone: 5088315301 gradwpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Instagram Icon of Instagram symbol Facebook Icon of Facebook logo LinkedIn Icon of LinkedIn Logo ONDEMAND WEBINARS Online Graduate Programs Our interactive online program webinarsavailable ondemand to watch at your convenienceoffer an inside look at each of WPIs different online graduate programs. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right View Now WEBINARS Graduate Studies Series Team members from Graduate  Professional Studies host quick and convenient webinars designed to highlight popular topics when starting grad school. Take a deep dive into specific areas of interest such as how to secure funding, how to ace your application, an overview of student services, and more! Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right VIEW PAST WEBINARS ON DEMAND State Authorization Online Degrees  Certificates Area of Study Certificate Master PhD Aerospace Engineering master Artificial Intelligence certificate master Artificial Intelligence in Business certificate Biomanufacturing certificate Bioscience Management master Biotechnology master Business Administration master Business Analytics master Chemistry: Medicinal Plant Focus master Computer Science (MCS) master Construction Project Management certificate master Cybersecurity certificate Data Science certificate master Electrical  Computer Engineering certificate master Environmental Engineering master Explosion Protection Engineering certificate master Fire Protection Engineering certificate master Information Technology master Innovation with User Experience (IUX) certificate Integrated STEM Education master Life Sciences Management certificate Manufacturing Engineering certificate master Materials Science  Engineering master Mechanical Engineering master Mechanical Engineering for Technical Leaders (METL) certificate Operations and Supply Chain Analytics (MS) master Power Systems Engineering certificate Power Systems Engineering (MEng) master Power Systems Management certificate master Robotics Engineering certificate master Supply Chain Analytics certificate Supply Chain Essentials certificate Systems Engineering certificate master phd Systems Engineering Leadership master Teaching Cyber Security for High School Teachers certificate Full List of Graduate Programs View Funding Opportunities Welcome to our virtual Campus experience! Wed love to have you see the beauty of our campus  even though youre virtual! EXPERIENCE OUR CAMPUS VIRTUALLY Refer a Friend Do you have a friend, colleague, or family member who might be interested in Worcester Polytechnic Institutes (WPI) online graduate programs? Click below to tell them about our programs. Refer a Friend 22 best graduate online engineering program U.S. News  World Report (2025) Top 25 best online MBA program in the U.S. Poets  Quants (2025) 1 best online master's in engineering programs Forbes (2023) 4 best online master's in computer science Fortune (2024) See all the events and webinars that the Graduate Studies team are hosting and attending. View the Calendar Got 7 minutes? Take this short survey and help improve the gradschoolresearch experience for you and your peers. Take the Survey Visit our Blog Catalyst Check out our blog for helpful articles about graduate school, acclimating to the US, frequently asked topics, and more. Find grad tips, STEM insights, and careerchanging advice all in one place. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read More VISIT TODAY! Guided Campus Tours Explore the vibrant campus of Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) and discover why it's the perfect place to pursue your academic and professional goals! Join us for an inperson campus tour and experience firsthand the innovative spirit, stateoftheart facilities, and supportive community that make WPI unique. Your visit will be guided by one of our graduate student workers who is looking forward to answering any questions you may have. Whether you're interested in our renowned engineering programs or exploring new fields, a campus tour is the best way to envision your future at WPI. Sign up today and take the first step toward an exciting journey with us! Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Sign Up for a Campus Tour IQP Opportunities Fair  On campus projects Thursday, March 20, 2025 11:30 am to 1:00 pm Location Rubin Campus Center FloorRoom  Odeum Sophomores looking for an on campus IQP for next year 20252026. Faculty will be available on Thursday March 20th 2025 in the Odeum from 11:301:00pm . This is an opportunity to investigate project opportunities from various disciplines and begin the registration for next years schedule. Contact Ruth McKeogh rmckeoghwpi.edu with further questions. Add to Google Calendar Add to Calendar Audience(s) Current Students  Faculty Department(s): OnCampus Projects Contact Person Ruth McKeogh Phone Number: 508 831 6699 Email: rmckeoghwpi.edu About WPI A Distinctive Approach to STEM Education and Research Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), a global leader in projectbased learning, is a distinctive, toptier technological university founded in 1865 on the principle that students learn most effectively by applying the theory learned in the classroom to the practice of solving realworld problems. Today, WPI recognizes the essential nature of preparing and supporting future scientists, engineers, and business leaders in their journeys to become the empathetic, collaborative, and resourceful STEM professionals the world needs now. WPIs awardwinning, pioneering projectbased and globally engaged curriculum engages students in solving important scientific, technological, and societal problems throughout their educationon campus and at more than 50 project centers in the Americas, Africa, AsiaPacific, and Europe. In both academics and research, undergraduate and graduate students pursue interdisciplinary collaboration with each other, with faculty across WPIs four schools , and with public and private partners to develop broadscope solutions to socially relevant problems. More than 70 PhD, master's, bachelors, and certificate programs are offered both on campus and online, providing flexible options and opportunities for students to advance their careers and succeed in todaysand tomorrowsworld. WPI Achieves Toptier R1 Designation WPI is designated as an R1 research institution based on its very high research spending and doctorate production. As one of only 187 institutions in the nation with an R1 status, the classification by the American Council on Education (ACE) and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching recognizes WPIs commitment to excellence and highimpact innovation. Learn more about WPI's R1 designation. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Stem Arrow Down Icon of a stem arrow pointing down About WPI Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Mission  Values WPI History Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Creating the WPI Plan Inventions from WPI AI at WPI Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Artificial Intelligence Stories Diversity, Equity, Inclusion  Belonging Innovation  Entrepreneurship Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Awards IE Support Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Makerspace MakerBucks: The "Go and Try" Prototyping Program Sustainability The WPI Press Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Meet the Team Curtis and Dudley Carlson Value Creation Initiative Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Meet the VCI Team City of Worcester Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Vibrant College Town Getting Around  Visiting Facts  Figures Buildings  Facilities Locations Accreditation Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) American Chemical Society American Society for Biochemistry  Molecular Biology Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business NECHE Policies Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Academic Integrity Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Student Resources Grace Wang, PhD, Formally Installed as WPI's 17th President WPI celebrated the inauguration of Grace Wang, PhD , on March 22, 2024. The ceremony was attended by faculty, staff, and students; delegates from more than 30 colleges and universities and learned societies; federal, state and local dignitaries; and special guests. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Read about President Grace Wang's Inauguration Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Watch Inauguration Highlights The Global Leader in ProjectBased Education For over half a century, projects have been at the core of WPI's signature undergraduate curriculum (known as the WPI Plan ), requiring students to apply their acquired skills, knowledge, and abilities to develop solutions to realworld problems. As the global leader in projectbased learning (PBL), WPI is now helping other colleges and universities around the world advance PBL across higher education through the Center for ProjectBased Learning . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Projectbased Learning at WPI Our Community At WPI, our greatest strength is our people. We are home to a passionate community of faculty, staff, researchers, and students who are dedicated to using their talents, expertise, and intellectual curiosity to solve the most complex global challenges. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Meet Our Students Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Meet Our Faculty Our Campus To know what WPI is all about, you have to experience it firsthand. WPIs campus, set on a secluded hilltop, doesnt look or feel like an urban university. Yet just down from The Hill, a vibrant college town awaits, with the amenities, opportunities, and lively cultural scene one would expect from New Englands second largest city. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Schedule a Visit Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Coming to Campus WPI at a Glance 70 degree programs 50 global project centers on six continents 95 acre hilltop campus in New England's secondlargest city Annual  Special Events From Homecoming to Founders Day, the university hosts a number of annual events, ceremonies, athletic competitions, and educational programs that celebrate achievements, honor traditions, and evoke a sense of pride, school spirit, and community at WPI. University Calendar WPI Athletics WPI Traditions Annual Events WPI Land Acknowledgement WPI acknowledges the painful history of genocide in the U.S. for native and indigenous peoples. As a public statement that honors the indigenous people as native inhabitants on this land, WPI honors and respects the many and diverse tribal nations who were forcefully removed from their sacred lands. WPI would like to recognize the people of the Chaubunagungamaug and Hassanamisco Nipmuc Tribe as the traditional custodians of the land on which we work. We take this moment to honor their elders, past, present, and emerging. WPI strongly advocates for higher education professionals to honor the land, the original tribal occupants, and the history of where they are located. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right George C. Gordon Library Guide: Land  Labor Acknowledgements Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Tribal Government of the Nipmuc Nation Office of the President University Leadership News  Events PBL in Higher Education Students begin preparing for life after graduation the moment they step on campus in their first year. Their time as undergraduates is just as valuable as it is limited, and its the responsibility of higher education institutions to prepare them for a successful future, both professionally and personally. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Projectbased Learning Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up PBL in Higher Education The goal is clear, but the question remains: Whats the most effective method of delivering a meaningful education to students? How can colleges and universities ensure that their students are ready for life after graduation, to tackle new challenges, passions, and problems? Research suggests that active learning in higher education, as well as repeated exposure to highimpact practices such as projectbased learning, is the answer. While its been proven that PBL in higher education is an effective method of preparing students for life after graduation , beginning the process of its implementationpotentially even revamping an entire curriculummay be overwhelming. Where do you start? How do you start? How does teaching in higher education need to change? Maybe most important, what difference will it make? WPIs Center for ProjectBased Learning (CPBL) offers a wealth of projectbased learning resources and expertise to help make this pedagogy a reality in academic institutions around the world. Projectbased Learning, Explained What is projectbased learning? Why is it important? How does it differ from traditional learning? These and other important questions will be answered through this PBL explainer. Benefits of Projectbased Learning In a curriculum built around project work, studentsguided, rather than directed, by facultytake responsibility for their own learning by tackling real, tangible problems through openended projects. This form of active learning in higher education leads students to develop key skills and abilitiescollaboration, communication, problem solving, confidence, leadership, and morethat will prove invaluable professionally and personally. Is Projectbased Learning Effective? PBL in higher education involves changing the traditional academic roles that students and faculty may be used to, taking them out of their comfort zones in some cases. Such changes are not easy, but decades of research have shown that PBL and other highimpact practices result in greater student learning gains than traditional teaching in higher education, particularly for students in underrepresented groups. Why Does Projectbased Learning Matter? More than ever, higher education needs to prepare students not just for their first jobs, but for lives and careers that, much like openended projects, are difficult to predict. Students who have experienced active learning in higher education through PBL are primed to take the skills theyve learned through project work and transfer them seamlessly to their professional lives. Thanks to these highimpact practices, students not only graduate with confidence and a sense of purpose, but are fully prepared for anything the world throws at them. Projectbased Learning in Higher Ed FAQs Learn more about some of the most frequently asked questions about PBL in higher education to help determine if it is a good fit for your institution. For more information about PBL, subscribe to our quarterly AdvancePBL newsletter . ProjectBased Learning Newsletter Issued quarterly, the AdvancePBL newsletter shares and promotes PBL ideas, practices and findings. View past issues of the newsletter for a wealth of PBL resources and stories. SUBSCRIBE NOW Sharing PBL Expertise Around the World Drawing on over 50 years of experience, WPIs Center for ProjectBased Learning has been changing the face of teaching PBL in higher education since 2016, helping other institutions implement facets of PBL on their own campuses through workshops, consultations, resources, and its flagship Institute on ProjectBased Learning . WPIs 2025 Institute on ProjectBased Learning will be held June 36. Applications Accepted Through February 15 . Apply as a team or as an individual . Ready to Transform Higher Education? Delving Deep into HighImpact Practices The best way for others to learn about PBL is the same way students do: by experiencing these highimpact practices firsthand. In 2019, the Chronicle of Higher Education attended WPIs annual Institute on ProjectBased Learning, resulting in an exclusive feature story in the Chronicles Teaching newsletter that spotlighted WPIs expertise in PBL, and its critical role in active learning in higher education. From our PBL Resource Library Developed in partnership with the Chronicle of Higher Education, WPIs complementary threepart webinar series, ProjectBased Learning (PBL) as a Vehicle for HighImpact Practices , gives participants the chance to hear from experts on their successes and challenges teaching in higher education when reinventing their courses, programs, and institutions through projectbased learning. UMBC shares impact from the Institute on ProjectBased Learning Bringing PBL to Life on Your Campus Tangible plans, collaborative research methods, reinvented student interactionstheyre all examples of participant takeaways from their time at WPIs Institute on ProjectBased Learning. Start picturing the benefits of projectbased learningand implementingwhat PBL will look like on your campus today. Hear from Institute participants . Delving Deep into HighImpact Practices The best way for others to learn about PBL is the same way students do: by experiencing these highimpact practices firsthand. In 2019, the Chronicle of Higher Education attended WPIs annual Institute on ProjectBased Learning, resulting in an exclusive feature story in the Chronicles Teaching newsletter that spotlighted WPIs expertise in PBL, and its critical role in active learning in higher education. From our PBL Resource Library Developed in partnership with the Chronicle of Higher Education, WPIs complementary threepart webinar series, ProjectBased Learning (PBL) as a Vehicle for HighImpact Practices , gives participants the chance to hear from experts on their successes and challenges teaching in higher education when reinventing their courses, programs, and institutions through projectbased learning. UMBC shares impact from the Institute on ProjectBased Learning Bringing PBL to Life on Your Campus Tangible plans, collaborative research methods, reinvented student interactionstheyre all examples of participant takeaways from their time at WPIs Institute on ProjectBased Learning. Start picturing the benefits of projectbased learningand implementingwhat PBL will look like on your campus today. Hear from Institute participants . Delving Deep into HighImpact Practices The best way for others to learn about PBL is the same way students do: by experiencing these highimpact practices firsthand. In 2019, the Chronicle of Higher Education attended WPIs annual Institute on ProjectBased Learning, resulting in an exclusive feature story in the Chronicles Teaching newsletter that spotlighted WPIs expertise in PBL, and its critical role in active learning in higher education. Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote What were really talking about is the ability to reimagine the systems of higher education in your own institution and thats exciting. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Arnold Robinson, Director of Community Partnership Center Roger Williams University Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote WPIs Institute on ProjectBased Learning provided a view of higher education that is very much needed. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Andy Borchers, Professor of Management Lipscomb University Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote The twoday projectbased learning workshop delivered by WPI on our campus was an important catalyst for discussions, collaborations, and forward motion for our college. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Laura Hahn, Director of Academy for Excellence in Engineering Education University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote What were really talking about is the ability to reimagine the systems of higher education in your own institution and thats exciting. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Arnold Robinson, Director of Community Partnership Center Roger Williams University Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote WPIs Institute on ProjectBased Learning provided a view of higher education that is very much needed. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Andy Borchers, Professor of Management Lipscomb University Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote The twoday projectbased learning workshop delivered by WPI on our campus was an important catalyst for discussions, collaborations, and forward motion for our college. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Laura Hahn, Director of Academy for Excellence in Engineering Education University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote What were really talking about is the ability to reimagine the systems of higher education in your own institution and thats exciting. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Arnold Robinson, Director of Community Partnership Center Roger Williams University Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Announcements Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Announcements Kris Wobbe Appointed to ThreeYear Term as Fulbright Specialist February 27, 2025 Projectbased Learning Five Students Receive Prestigious Benjamin A. Gilman Scholarship February 06, 2025 Marketing Communications PBL Winter 2025 Newsletter Now Available January 03, 2025 Projectbased Learning Finalists for 2024 President's IQP Awards December 11, 2024 The Global School Lifelong Impact of PBL Projectbased Education at WPI Degree in Data Science Bachelor of Science Frequently Asked Questions Enroll Visit Request Information A degree in data science has been in high demand for years, and WPI has taken its pioneering, wellestablished graduate program and adapted it for undergraduate students. The new undergraduate degree in data science will prepare students for this indemand job (the top career field in the country, according to Glassdoor) and provide them with the knowledge, skills, and experiences they need to thrive. Value Proposition Description WPI is renowned for its handson project work experience for students, and this program is no different. Through experiential learning and courses focused on a wide range of disciplines, students pursuing a major in data science will master foundational topics, including stateoftheart data analytic technologies like machine and deep learning, artificial intelligence, and big data. They will learn to effectively gather huge amounts of data, draw new insights from it, and formulate appropriate action plans. There is a great demand for data scientists in just about any industry, and WPI graduates will be prepared to tackle the most critical data challenges in this information age. The WPI Way If youre interested in a data science degree at WPI, discover our awardwinning faculty, cuttingedge research, and worldchanging projects, along with the inspiring accomplishments of our alumni. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Data Science Department The degree in data science is interdisciplinary, meaning that in addition to core classes in analysis techniques, computing, mathematical sciences, and business, students take classes in advanced topics such as visual analytics, machine learning, statistics, deep learning, artificial intelligence, and big data management. Interested in a specific application of data science? You have the freedom and flexibility to do a deep dive and focus more of your coursework and projects on particular applicationsfrom social media to Internet of things data problemscustomizing your education where you can discover and follow your passion. Degree Requirements for Major in Data Science Explore requirements and course offerings for WPIs major in data science. UNDERGRADUATE CATALOG Projectbased Learning Handson, projectbased learning is the cornerstone of the WPI experience, and a big reason why youll stand out to employers. As a data science major, your options might include supporting faculty research, conducting projects offcampus in the U.S. or abroad, and finding your niche. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn More About ProjectBased Learning More Value Whether its realworld work experience through a coop or internship , accelerating your path with a BSMS program , or even finding opportunities to integrate coursework with extracurricular interests, personalizing your education at WPI pays off. See how WPI changes your path. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Return on Investment Jumpstart Your Career Career Development Center What Does a Career in Data Science Look Like? Earning a bachelors in data science from WPI puts you at the forefront of forming deep connections, landing the position of your dreams, and excelling in a thriving location. Explore our long history of industry partnerships a cornerstone of our data science programand see how you can build a successful career in this indemand data science field . Found Your Major? Consider a Minor in Data Science. Are you already focusing on a major in a different area or uncertain about whether a degree in data science fits your career aspirations? Rather than pursuing a major in data science, consider a minor , which will provide you with a strong foundation in the field. Youll focus on courses in modeling and data analysis, computational data intelligence, and an introduction to data science. If you have questions about minoring in data science, reach out to datasciencewpi.edu . Take the Next Step with a Certificate in Data Science Whether youve already earned a BS in data science and want to continue your education, or are interested in gaining a career advantage, earning a certificate in data science can help get you there. Our data science graduate certificate is a 12credit program where youll learn how to analyze and interpret data in realworld applications. The credits you earn from the grad certificate can also be used toward an MS degree. If you prefer the convenience of online courses, consider our online graduate certificate option. Whether earned online or in person, a certificate will provide the cuttingedge education needed to excel in the data science field. Continue Your Data Science Education Youve already earned a BS degree in data science, so whats next? If youre interested in building up your experiences and qualifications in this indemand field, WPIs got you covered. We offer an MS in data scienceonly a handful of universities to do sothats available on campus and online to best suit your schedule. Our PhD program is the next step, giving you the chance to work alongside faculty and industry partners to analyze, capture, search, share, store, transfer, query, and visualize huge amounts of data to solve realworld challenges. Affiliations Business Computer Science Mathematical Sciences Data Science Program Similar Majors Degree in Business Degree in Mathematical Sciences Degree in Computer Science PREVIOUS ANNOUNCEMENT Office of Undergraduate Admissions Introduces Early Decision Application Option NEXT ANNOUNCEMENT WPI Army ROTC Bay State Battalion SummerFall Newsletter Did you Know? Dining Services has an app? Department(s): Dining Services February 05, 2020 Masters in Biotechnology Master of Science Inquire Apply Now The Next Biotech Innovation Is Happening Now. Prepare To Be Part of It. SkillsBased, NonThesis Program The Master of Science in Biotechnology program at Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) equips students with technical knowledge and lab training, laying the foundation for a fulfilling career in the biotech industrya sector thats booming here in central Massachusetts. As you continue to build or advance your career as a scientist or engineer, our masters degree in biotechnology provides several advantages unique to WPI: Immersive, handson lab sessions that reinforce and complement what you learn in class Training with stateoftheart equipment at WPIs worldclass research complex Opportunities to collaborate with other disciplines and industry partners on complex, realworld problems A projectbased education that builds soft skills in teamwork and leadership, preparing you to succeed in todays biotech workplace Learning Outcomes for the MS in Biotechnology When you complete our masters in biotechnology program, youll be able to: Integrate fundamental and applied science of molecular biology and biochemistry in your role as a scientist or engineer. Demonstrate expertise in the latest laboratory equipment, bioproduction techniques, and best practices applicable to the biotechnology industry. Leverage the collaborative and interdisciplinary nature of the biotech industry. Effectively engage in crossfunctional decisions with management, development, operations, and regulatory affairs. The Masters Degree in Biotechnology for Working Professionals For the convenience of working professionals earning their masters degree parttime, WPIs required lab sessions are planned with the typical work schedule in mind. Whether youre going straight to grad school after earning your bachelors degree, leveling up your biotech skills to augment your career, or switching careers entirely, youll get all the benefits of our skillsfocused biotechnology MS without the added stress of schedule constraints. Looking for maximum flexibility? Consider our hybrid or online masters in biotechnology . Youll get the same highquality instructional experience and access to labs that you get from our oncampus program. Gain Essential Lab Training for a Biotechnology Career The cuttingedge biotechnology facilities at WPI are second to none. Here, youll put classroom theory into practice as you work with advanced lab equipment and master the technical skills you need for your future career. Your lab sessions will likely take place at WPIs Life Sciences  Bioengineering Center (LSBC) or the Biomanufacturing Education  Training Center (BETC). Life Sciences  Bioengineering Center Practice working with interdisciplinary teams on complex, realworld problems at the LSBC. Advance scientific research and innovate new therapies, devices, and technologies that improve human health for all. Partner with our corporate tenants and external companies on highimpact research and development projects. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn more Biomanufacturing Education  Training Center Develop soughtafter lab skills by training with the latest technologies used by leading biomanufacturing companies. The BETC is a fully functional, pilotscale manufacturing plant that mirrors realworld facilities. Work alongside faculty and industry experts who give you handson guidance and onthejob training. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Learn more MS in Biotechnology Curriculum Program Requirements and Courses Students seeking a Master of Science in Biotechnology from WPI should have one of the following undergraduate degrees: BS in the life sciences BS in an engineering field with a foundation in the life sciences BS in another field with demonstrated knowledge of biology principles BA with the requisite math and science coursework Program Requirements Students must successfully complete a minimum of 30 credit hours, of which 15 credit hours must be in Biology  Biotechnology. Additionally, the following requirements must be met: 9 credits in skillsbased courses ( fully onlineasynchronous option available) 15 credits in Biology  Biotechnology or other approved department courses for depth 6 credits in elective courses Thesis option: Currently, WPIs online graduate programs do not offer a thesis option, as thesis cannot be completed online. Courses Please note that courses with an asterisk, have an oncampus lab requirement. Labs will be planned with the working professional in mind. COURSES BB 504. Molecular Biology of the Cell BB 505. Fermentation Biology BB 508. Animal Cell Culture BB 509. Scale up Bioprocessing BB 560. Methods of Protein Purification  Downstream Processing BB 570 ST. Practical Process Control BB 570 ST. Advanced Topics in Biotechnology BB 570 ST. Medical and Applied Immunology SKILLSBASED COURSES WITH NO ONCAMPUS LAB REQUIREMENT BB 581. Bioinformatics CH 554. Molecular Modeling MA 511. Applied Statistics for Engineers and Scientists To find the next offering of online Biotechnology courses, visit the Registrars site . To view a course description, visit the Graduate Catalog. Subject to change based on availability. For more information: Graduate Admissions Application Requirements Take a Course Join a Live Webinar! Graduate Studies Series Team members from Graduate  Professional Studies host quick and convenient webinars designed to highlight popular topics when starting grad school. Take a deep dive into specific areas of interest such as how to secure funding, how to ace your application, an overview of student services, and more! Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right REGISTER FOR UPCOMING WEBINARS Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right VIEW PAST WEBINARS ON DEMAND Do you have a friend, colleague, or family member who might be interested in WPI's graduate programs? Refer a Friend Have questions? WPI's dedicated graduate student support team can help. Find Student Support by Program Similar Majors Masters in Bioscience Management Online Life Sciences  Biomanufacturing Graduate Certificate Online Program Management The WPI Robotics Resource Center supports on and offcampus programs that help to advance access and knowledge to STEM and Robotics. We support various initiatives across programs like FIRST and VEX Robotics Competition. The RRC manages WPILib, the software libraries used by thousands of FIRST teams worldwide, manages middle school robotics programs throughout MA, and supports our inhouse FIRST Robotics Competition Team 190. We also host a fullscale FRC Community Practice field that is available yearround to any team. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Robotics Resource Center Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Program Management CONTACT Location: 15 Sagamore Road rrcwpi.edu MA First Lego League (FLL) Partner WPI serves as the Program Delivery Partner for FIRST LEGO League Challenge (FLL) in Massachusetts. FLL introduces teams of students aged 9 to 14 to teamwork, problem solving, and STEM concepts using LEGO robotics kits. As an FLL Partner, WPI plays a crucial role in facilitating and coordinating local events, team growth, and sustainability for the program. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Find out more FIRST Tech Challenge (FTC) Support FIRST Tech Challenge (FTC) challenges students in grades 7 to 12 to design, build, program, and operate robots to compete in an alliance format. FTC also focuses on the development of a welldocumented engineering notebook and emphasizes gracious professionalism and cooperation among teams. WPI hosts FTC events oncampus and also is building relationships with FTC on a global scale to enhance the programming capabilities of all teams. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Find out more FRC190 Team Support Team 190 is one of the original and sustaining FIRST Robotics Competition teams. It has participated in every FIRST every year since 1992 and wont be powering down any time soon. Headquartered at WPI, FRC 190 is partnered with the Mass Academy of Math and Science but also welcomes students and mentors from anywhere. Visit the teams website for more information, including how to join. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Find out more FIRST Community Practice Field Starting in 2023, WPI hosts a Community FRC Practice field on campus that is open to all FRC teams. This fullscale, highfidelity field allows teams to dramatically improve their skills and performance with a place to practice not traditionally available. The practice field is at 15 Sagamore Rd and available through advanced signup. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right More about Sagamore WPILiB for FIRST The WPI Robotics Library (WPILib)created by WPIis the standard software library provided for teams to write code for their FRC robots. WPILib contains a set of useful classes and subroutines for interfacing with various parts of the FRC control system (such as sensors, motor controllers, and the driver station), as well as an assortment of other utility functions. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right FIND OUT MORE Robotics OutreachDemos FRC190 offers dozens of demos each year to groups around Massachusetts. The demos are often held at schools, libraries, community centers, scout troops, STEM nights, or festivals and are open to the public. Team members present information about STEM and robotics, and they demonstrate the teams 120pound competition robots capabilities. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Find out more Master's in Materials Process Engineering Master of Science Request Information Apply Please note that the Materials Process Engineering MS program is not currently accepting new students. Students in this field are encouraged to check out other WPI programs in Manufacturing Engineering, Materials Science  Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering. Value Proposition Description The Materials Process Engineering MS program is geared toward professionals who want to break out to become entrepreneurs, trend setters, or executives in the materials process field. The program helps you understand the science of different materials and their properties and the manufacturing processes that help create the best product most efficiently. The programs courses are offered online and on campus, fulltime and parttime, so you can fit the courses around your professional schedule. Three primary programs include Manufacturing Engineering, Materials Science  Engineering, and ManagementIndustrial Engineering, along with electives. Our students design uses for new processes in traditional fields, like automotive technology, and in emerging markets, such as medical products. Your work will cover the areas most essential to materials processing engineering, including manufacturing systems and process design, analysis and control materials processing, and processingstructureproperty relations in materials. Graduate Admissions Application Requirements Curriculum Materials process engineering professionals require knowledge in both materials science and manufacturing engineering principles, so WPIs curriculum offers the foundation of theory and handson projects you need to propel your career forward. Youll take courses in three programsManufacturing Engineering, Materials Science  Engineering, and ManagementIndustrial Engineeringwith courses ranging from Advanced Thermodynamics to Design for Manufacturability to Corrosion and Corrosion Control to Entrepreneurship. Your studies will culminate with a project that could include a business plan, a research proposal, or a new product. Internship opportunities may be available through collaborative efforts of the Metal Processing Institute and the Materials Science  Engineering program. The Industrial Internships program for MS and PhD students adds to the project work and classroom experience WPI offers. Similar Majors Masters in Manufacturing Engineering Master's in Material Science  Engineering Master's in Mechanical Engineering Refer a Friend Do you have a friend, colleague, or family member who might be interested in a WPI graduate program? Click below to tell them about our programs. REFER A FRIEND Research Our worldclass faculty and innovative lab space offers you a solid foundation for conducting your research and advancing your practical knowledge. Youll work with researchers across disciplines to collaborate on ideas and build your professional network. Research topics in Materials Process Engineering: Casting and heat treating Cost analysis Lean manufacturing Market analysis Surface metrology Our facilities include everything from the Haas Center for Computer Controlled Machining to the Materials Characterization Laboratory to the Metal Processing Institute, the largest universityindustry consortium in North America. Materials process engineering research involves researching new materials and also examining new approaches to existing materials and how they can be improved. Working with different materials in our facilities will inform your research with real data you can apply right away. Our facilities include everything from the Haas Center for Computer Controlled Machining to the Materials Characterization Laboratory to the Metal Processing Institute, the largest universityindustry consortium in North America. Materials process engineering research involves researching new materials and also examining new approaches to existing materials and how they can be improved. Working with different materials in our facilities will inform your research with real data you can apply right away. Our facilities include everything from the Haas Center for Computer Controlled Machining to the Materials Characterization Laboratory to the Metal Processing Institute, the largest universityindustry consortium in North America. Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right WPIs innovative facilities include specific space for materials processing engineering work. Youll have access to our innovative labs that contain equipment like melting furnaces, rotary degassers, and scanning electron microscopes equipped with energy dispersive Xray analysis capabilities. Some of our stateoftheart facilities: Advanced Casting Research Center Center for Heat Treating Excellence Center for Resource Recovery and Recycling Manufacturing Labs and Haas Technical Education Center Higgins Labs Machine Shop and Project Laboratory Manufacturing Control and Dynamics Laboratories Metal Processing Institute Surface Metrology Lab Research  Facilities WEBINARS Graduate Studies Series. Team members from Graduate  Professional Studies host quick and convenient webinars designed to highlight popular topics when starting grad school. Take a deep dive into specific areas of interest such as how to secure funding, how to ace your application, an overview of student services, and more! Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right VIEW PAST WEBINARS ON DEMAND Have questions? WPI's dedicated graduate student support team can help. Find Student Support by Program Affiliations Mechanical Engineering Materials Process Engineering Program Apply Now Computer Science Certificates Certificates Request Information Apply Value Proposition Description Graduate Certificate The Computer Science graduate certificate program at WPI offers you a cohesive set of graduatelevel courses in a specialized area of computer science to enhance your knowledgebase and increase your marketability in the workforce. While a prior degree in Computer Science or Computer Engineering is highly recommended, anyone with a BA or BS in any field may complete this certificate program. You will complete a set of courses in your area of interest: computer and communications networks, artificial intelligence, database design, database systems, graphicsimage processingvisualization, programming languages, and software engineering and interface design. Advanced Certificate WPIs Computer Science advanced certificate program allows you to continue your studies in advanced topics in the computer science and technology discipline in which you hold your graduate degree. An MS degree in Computer Science or Computer Engineering is required for admission to this certificate program. In the program, you will choose five electives in the field of artificial intelligence. Youll also have the benefit of academic advising, without committing to a full graduate degree program. Connect with Us Application Requirements Requirements This program requires students to complete 45 thematically related courses in their area of interest. Each students program of study must be approved by the academic advisor. Academic advisors are assigned upon admission to the program but may be changed in accordance with departmental policies. Note: CS 525 (Special Topics in Computer Science) may be used to satisfy certificate requirements. Some CS 525 topics appear below. Additional topics that satisfy certification program requirements may be offered. COMPUTER SYSTEMS Operating Systems (CS 502) Advanced Topics in Operating Systems (CS 535) Choose 2: Analysis of Computations and Systems (CS 504) Introduction to Local and Wide Area Networks (CS 513) Advanced Systems Architecture (CS 514ECE 572) Modeling and Performance Evaluation of Network and Computer Systems (CS 533ECE 581) COMPUTER AND COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS Choose 4: Analysis of Computations and Systems (CS 504) Introduction to Local and Wide Area Networks (CS 513) Operating Systems (CS 502) HighPerformance Networks (CS 530ECE 530) Advanced Computer and Communications Networks (CS 577ECE 537) Telecommunications Transmission Technologies (ECE 535) Wireless Information Networks (ECE 538) ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE Choose 4: Artificial Intelligence (CS 534) KnowledgeBased Systems (CS 538) Machine Learning (CS 539) Computer Vision (CSRBE 549) Artificial Intelligence in Design (CS 540) Knowledge Discovery And Data Mining (CS548) Graphical Models for Reasoning Under Uncertainty (CS 566) Artificial Intelligence for Adaptive Educational Technology (CS 568) DATABASE DESIGN Database Management Systems (CS 542) Advanced Topics in Database Systems (CS 561) Choose 2: Analysis of Computations and Systems (CS 504) Design of Software Systems (CS 509) Special Topics: ObjectOriented Analysis and Design (CS 525) Advanced Topics in Software Engineering (CS 562) DATABASE SYSTEMS Choose 4: Database Management Systems (CS 542) Advanced Topics in Database Systems (CS 561) Foundational Aspects Of Database Systems (CS 556) Knowledge Discovery And Data Mining (CS548) Special Topics: Selected Topic in Databases (CS 525) GRAPHICSIMAGE PROCESSINGVISUALIZATION Choose 4: Computer Graphics (CS 543) Digital Image Processing (CS 545ECE 545) Computer Vision (CSRBE 549) Advanced Topics in Computer Graphics (CS 563) HumanComputer Interaction (CS 546) Biovisualization (BCB 502) Special Topics: Data Visualization (CS 525) Special Topics: Mobile Graphics (CS 525) PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES Choose 4: Foundations of Computer Science (CS 503) Programming Language Design (CS 536) Compiler Construction (CS 544) Special Topics: ObjectOriented Analysis and Design (CS 525) SOFTWARE ENGINEERING AND INTERFACE DESIGN Choose 4: Design of Software Systems (CS 509) HumanComputer Interaction (CS 546) Advanced Topics in Software Engineering (CS 562) Special Topics: ObjectOriented Analysis and Design (CS 525) Admission A BS or BA degree is the general requirement. An undergraduate degree in Computer Science or Computer Engineering is the recommended background for admission to the Graduate Certificate Program in Computer Science. Advanced Graduate Certificate Program Requirements The program consists of a set of five courses (minimum), none of which were included in the students formal masters program of study. The courses may either include a breadth or a depth option, and may be customized to satisfy a students unique needs. The program of study is reviewed and approved by the students academic advisor. Upon completion of the required course work, students are awarded a Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study in their particular program of study. Note: CS 525 (Special Topics in Computer Science) may be used to satisfy advanced certificate requirements. Some CS 525 topics appear below. Additional topics that satisfy certification program requirements may be offered. In addition, CS 598, Directed Research (or, where appropriate, ECE 598), can be used to satisfy requirements. ADVANCED COMPUTER SYSTEMS (JOINT WITH ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING) choose 5: Introduction to Local and Wide Area Networks (CS 513) Advanced Systems Architecture (CS 514ECE 572) Special Topics: Computer Engineering (CS 525ECE 579) Modeling and Performance Evaluation of Network and Computer Systems (CS 533ECE 581) Advanced Topics in Operating Systems (CS 535) VLSI Design (ECE 566) ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE choose 5: Artificial Intelligence (CS 534) KnowledgeBased Systems (CS 538) Machine Learning (CS 539) Artificial Intelligence in Design (CS 540) Digital Image Processing (CS 545ECE 545) Computer Vision (CS 549RBE 549) Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (CS 548) Graphical Models for Reasoning Under Uncertainty (CS 566) Artificial Intelligence for Adaptive Educational Technology (CS 568) Admission An MS degree in Computer Science or Computer Engineering is required for admission to the Advanced Graduate Certificate Program in Computer Science. WEBINARS Graduate Studies Series. Team members from Graduate  Professional Studies host quick and convenient webinars designed to highlight popular topics when starting grad school. Take a deep dive into specific areas of interest such as how to secure funding, how to ace your application, an overview of student services, and more! Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right VIEW PAST WEBINARS ON DEMAND Similar Majors Master of Science in Computer Science (MS) PhD in Computer Science Master's in Data Science PREVIOUS ANNOUNCEMENT The Quorum Closed 1212 for Reading Day NEXT ANNOUNCEMENT Sports  Recreation Center Updates WPI Alliance, oSTEM Affiliate Chapter, Awarded Chapter of the Year by oSTEM Department(s): Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural Education (ODIME) December 11, 2023 Members of the Alliance accepting the Chapter of the Year award  Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (oSTEM), Inc. is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit professional association for LGBTQ people in the STEM community. With over 100 student chapters at collegesuniversities and professional chapters in cities across the United States and abroad, oSTEM is the largest chapterbased organization focused on LGBTQ people in STEM. Learn more at ostem.org. The Alliance at Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) is a chapter of oSTEM, providing a community for LGBTQIAP people in STEM. The Alliance recently attended the 13th Annual oSTEM Conference in Anaheim, California. There were over 1200 attendees, including students, chapter advisors, professionals, and volunteers. The Alliance brought a delegation of 18 students and 2 advisors. During the oSTEM Community Awards Ceremony, the Alliance was awarded Chapter of the Year. According to the oSTEM website, this award recognizes the ongoing accomplishments of established oSTEM Chapters. The guiding purpose of the oSTEM organization is to empower LGBTQ people in STEM to succeed personally, academically, and professionally by cultivating environments and communities that nurture innovation, leadership, and advocacy. It is the oSTEM chapters that contribute greatly to this work. During the Community Awards ceremony, the Alliances commitment to making events accessible to all members of the LGBTQIAP community by avoiding publication of photos of club members without their consent, soliciting feedback from attendees of large events, and hosting a variety of events to appeal to different parts of the community. Two Alliance members, Maya Evohr 25 (sheher) and Sara Frunzi 24 (sheher), presented their posters  3D Printed System for Simultaneous Stretch and Imaging of Engineered Microtissues , and  Towards Robotic Exoskeleton MultiContact Walking Via A Gait Library , respectively, during the Poster Session at the conference. Sara was awarded the Peoples Choice Award for her poster. Maya Evohr presenting her poster  3D Printed System for Simultaneous Stretch and Imaging of Engineered Microtissues . Sara Frunzi presenting her poster  Towards Robotic Exoskeleton MultiContact Walking Via A Gait Library . Sara Frunzi accepting her Peoples Choice Award for her poster, along with the other poster awardees and Abby Ray (shethey), the oSTEM Vice President of Marketing and Communications. The primary purpose of The Alliance, affiliate oSTEM Chapter is to provide a community for people of any gender identity or sexual or romantic orientation. Our secondary purpose is to promote advocacy and awareness regarding persons of any gender identity or sexual or romantic orientation. The Alliance became an affiliate oSTEM chapter in 2016 and has since attended each annual conference. PeertoPeer Graduate Mentoring Support Through Connection The Graduate  Professional Studies Mentorship Program at WPI gives students a flexible, supportive way to connect through 1:1 mentorships. The program is all about building a sense of community and providing help as students navigate both their academic and professional lives. By connecting students with each other, the goal is to create a strong peer support network that helps everyone succeed, both in the classroom and beyond. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Graduate Student Experience Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Graduate Student Mentoring CONTACT Location: 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) Phone: (508) 8315301 gradwpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Instagram Icon of Instagram symbol Facebook Icon of Facebook logo LinkedIn Icon of LinkedIn Logo Why Should You Join PeertoPeer Graduate Mentoring? This program offers significant benefits for both mentors and mentees, no matter where you are in your graduate journey. Whether you're pursuing a Graduate Certificate, Masters, PhD, or juggling parttime or fulltime studies as a domestic or international student, this program can help you achieve your goals. For Mentees As a mentee, you'll receive invaluable guidance on navigating WPI, from learning about faculty and academic programs to understanding campus culture and networking opportunities. Mentors, who have experienced the same challenges, can help with everything from small questions to big decisions, including how to secure internships and build your professional network. If youre an international student, a mentor can offer insights into adjusting to U.S. academic life. For those balancing parttime studies with work, a mentor can help with time management and worklife balance strategies. Whatever your background, having a mentor will give you a clearer path to success. For Mentors Mentoring is an opportunity to give back and hone your leadership skills. Whether youre in a Master's, PhD, or have completed a Graduate Certificate, mentoring allows you to share the advice you wish you had received. You'll develop key interpersonal skills that are vital in both academic and professional settings. As a mentor, you can help students from diverse backgrounds navigate WPI's resources, programs, and faculty. And, for an added professional boost, you'll earn a digital badge to showcase your mentoring experience to potential employers. Program Benefits The Mentorship Program supports students at various stages, whether you're: New Graduate Students (FullTimePartTime): A peer mentor can help you adjust to graduate school life, manage coursework, and get involved in the WPI community. Mentors provide guidance on everything from building relationships with professors to making the most of social and academic resources. SecondYear and Beyond: If youve already completed a year or more of grad school, this is your chance to give back. You can offer wisdom on time management, balancing research with coursework, or even how to navigate internships and job searches. By mentoring, you also sharpen leadership and communication skills that enhance your own career prospects. No matter your program or experience level, the mentorship program fosters meaningful connections and strengthens WPIs graduate community. Plus, youll earn a digital badge to showcase your mentoring experience to potential employers. How it Works Mentorship Commitment Mentorship pairs are expected to commit to at least one semester, with a minimum of two mentorship engagements per month. (Meetings may be done inperson or remotely.) Digital Badges are awarded to mentors at the conclusion of their initial semester commitment. The program is designed to be flexible, allowing both mentors and mentees to structure their engagements around their individual needs. MentorMentee Pairing Mentors and mentees will be matched based on specific criteria such as: Academic Level Program of Study Professional Goals Time Commitment Shared Interests and Cultural Considerations The program facilitator will assess these preferences to ensure the best possible match for each pair, promoting a fruitful and engaging relationship Becoming a Mentor If you are interested in becoming a mentor, here are the requirements: Must have completed at least two semesters of graduate studies. Must be in good academic standing. Ready to be a mentor? Fill out this form and start shaping the future of a fellow student! Becoming a Mentee To become a mentee, the requirements are simple: You must be in your first semester of graduate studies at WPI. Interested in finding a mentor? Fill out this form to be paired with someone who can guide you through the challenges of graduate school. We are accepting applications for the Spring 2025 cohort of the graduate mentorship program now through Dec 31! BLOG The Benefits of Mentorship for Graduate Students READ Contact Us: Peer mentoring creates a supportive network that contributes to the success and retention of graduate students. If you'd like more detailed guidance or have questions about the program, feel free to reach out to our Student Success Team at gradengagewpi.edu or (508) 8316911. Accreditations and STEM Designations The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB)  The Business School at WPI is an accredited member of AACSB InternationalThe Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).   As the worlds largest business education alliance, AACSB InternationalThe Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) connects educators, students, and business to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders. Synonymous with the highest standards of excellence since 1916, AACSB provides quality assurance, business education intelligence, and professional development services to over 1,500 member organizations and more than 785 accredited business schools worldwide. With its global headquarters in Tampa, Florida, USA; Europe, Middle East, and Africa headquarters in Amsterdam, the Netherlands; and Asia Pacific headquarters in Singapore, AACSBs mission is to foster engagement, accelerate innovation, and amplify impact in business education. For more information, visit aacsb.edu . For over a century, AACSB Accreditation has been synonymous with the highest standards in business education. Accredited schools have successfully undergone a rigorous review process conducted by their peers in the business education community, ensuring that they have the resources, credentials, and commitment needed to provide students with a firstrate, futurefocused business education. The Business School, formerly the Department of Management, received initial AACSB accreditation in 2003, and successfully completed a reaccreditation review in 2018. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left About Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Accreditations  STEM Designations CONTACT Location: Washburn Shops Phone: 5088315218 businesswpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Facebook Icon of Facebook logo LinkedIn Icon of LinkedIn Logo ProgramSpecific Competency Goals Common to all Undergraduate and Masters programs: Evidencebased problem solving: Able to frame a problem and use evidence and analytic reasoning to develop and implement practical solutions. Teambased collaboration: Able to effectively work together to pursue the common goal of solving complex problems. Undergraduate Programs: Business KnowledgeFluency: Able to assess the financial, organizational, and technical viability of proposed business solutions. Communication Skills: Able to communicate project ideas and results in clear and wellorganized presentations and conversations. Masters Programs: Master of Science in Business Analytics: Designing effective analytics solutions Role of analytics in improving organizational performance Master of Science in Information Technology: Designing effective IT solutions Role of IT in improving organizational performance Master of Science in Innovation and User Experience: UX Process Framework: Able to use the UXdriven innovation paradigm to develop appropriate processes for designing competitive products and services. UX Research Framework: Able to apply UX research to assess the efficacy of technological productsservices and identify opportunities for improvement. Crossfunctional: Able to discuss key issues related to working across the boundaries between technical and business disciplines. Strategic Thinking: Able to generate practical, unique, and usable business insights that create a longterm competitive advantage. Master of Science in Management Crossfunctional: able to discuss key issues related to working across the boundaries between technical and business disciplines. Master of Science in Operations and Supply Chain Analytics Operations and Organizational Excellence: Able to identify the role of operations in improving organizational performance and how operations is linked with other functions. Designing and Improving Operations: Able to use appropriate tools and analysis methods to design and improve processes and systems. PhD in Business Administration AnalyticalMethodological Skills: Demonstrate a detailed knowledge and analyticalmethodological skills of their areas of specialization Original Research: Engage in and conduct original research in their chosen area of specialization Communicate Research: Communicate the results of their research in a clear and concise manner Teaching: Prepare to be able to teach collegelevel courses in their area of concentration (for those students who expect to enter teaching careers) Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) The School of Business Industrial Engineering Program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET . ABET is a specialized accreditor that accredits college and university programs in applied science, computing, engineering, and engineering technology. With ABET accreditation, students, parents, employers, and the society we serve can be confident that a program meets the quality standards that produce graduates prepared to enter a global workforce. Program Mission The mission of the Industrial Engineering (IE) Program at WPI is to prepare undergraduate students for professional engineering practice, providing the foundation for careers of leadership in challenging global and technological environments. We strive to accomplish this through: An innovative, projectbased curriculum An emphasis on industrial engineering skills with system applications A flexible curriculum responsive to student interests and changes in the competitive environment An environment that encourages facultystudent interaction A culture that encourages the active involvement of students in their learning Program Educational Objectives The educational objectives of the IE Program describe the expected accomplishments of graduates during the first few years after graduation. They include: Industrial Engineering Knowledge and Design Skills. Graduates should be able to support operational decisionmaking and to design solutions that address the complex and changing industrial engineering problems faced by organizations, using current concepts and technologies. Communication Skills. Graduates will be sought out to represent their companies both for internal and external communications based upon the excellence they will have achieved through persistent updating of their knowledge of new communication tools and by taking advantage of opportunities for critical peer review. Teamwork and Leadership Skills. Graduates should be able to serve as change agents in a global environment, based on strong interpersonal and teamwork skills, an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility and a willingness to take the initiative. Student Outcomes Specifically, graduating students should demonstrate that they attain the following: an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, created a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives an ability to design and conduct appropriate experimentations, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies STEM Designations WHAT IS STEM? STEM stands for science, technology, engineering, and math and is a designation given to programs and degrees in those fields of study. WHAT IS STEM DESIGNATION? STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) are important skills relevant to the economic growth of the United States and its overall competitiveness in the global market. Because the United States has seen a decline of qualified STEM workers over the past several decades, the country has allowed institutions to assign STEM designation to educational programs meeting specific criteria. WHAT DOES STEM DESIGNATION MEAN FOR STUDENTS? Enrolling in and successfully completing a STEM designated degree program may allow international students to remain in the United States for an extended period of time to help with the demand for STEM professionals. Traditionally international students who enter the United States on an F1 visa were eligible for up to twelve months of OPT (optional practical training). Students who graduate from a STEM designated degree program may be allowed to extend their stay in the US pending offer of employment from an everify employer. Find out more information . For additional information on OPT and CPT please contact our International Student and Scholars Office . The Business School STEM Designated Programs: MS Business Analytics MS Information Technology MS Innovation with User Experience MS Operations and Supply Chain Analytics MS Financial Technology WPI welcomes and values the perspective of the universitys diverse, global community. We have support systems in place to assist our students from around the globe and resources to continually strengthen our commitment to diversity, inclusion, and equity on campus. International Student and Scholars Office Diversity, Equity  Inclusion PREVIOUS ANNOUNCEMENT Dont Forget to Apply!  Summer Sandbox Grant NEXT ANNOUNCEMENT Ludic Soundscapes: Music, Sonic Environments, and Video Games (Authors Unbound) Where in the World Are Students in CTerm 25? Department(s): Global Projects Program January 22, 2025 Nearly 250 students are working throughout CTerm 2025 at a dozen project centers as part of WPIs Global Projects Program . At various times during the year, students travel to one of more than 50 project centers to complete work for an Interactive Qualifying Project (IQP), Major Qualifying Project (MQP), Humanities  Arts requirement , or independent study. Students gain valuable and lasting impact from a project in any location , and each project center offers a different experience. This CTerm, seven project teams will work at the Bangkok Project Center. While most students typically spend a BTerm course focused on research methods and project preparation, the Bangkok cohort also learns about the language and culture of the host location where they will complete a project. Students take Thai language and culture lessons in A and BTerm prior to their travel to Thailand, says Esther BoucherYip , professor of teaching in the Department of Humanities and Arts and an advisor at the Bangkok Project Center. She notes the lessons are tailored to the custom learning needs of the students while they are at the project center which opened more than 30 years ago. Once in Thailand, project teams include both WPI students and local students from Chulalongkorn University , so knowledge of the language and culture eases communication. This team model is unique to the Bangkok Project Center, says BoucherYip. WPI and Chulalongkorn undergraduates prepare for the project experience in a very similar way, she says. Both groups learn about the projects and complete a proposal separately, and when they meet in CTerm, they share their ideas and interpretation of the project problem and proceed as one team. Working with Thai students allows WPI students to gain an insider perspective of the local issues and how consideration of culture and the community needs impact the 'solutions' or recommendations or deliverables the team makes. No matter where they are, project teams gain valuable skills they bring with them into their personal and professional lives. From the first project center opening 50 years ago , project center work often fosters lasting relationships with other students and community partners and cultivates crosscultural communication skills that last a lifetime. CTerm Interactive Qualifying Projects Bangkok, Thailand Project Center with advisors Esther BoucherYip (HUA) and Caitlin Neer (formerly Keller) (ATC) Cuenca, Ecuador Project Center with advisors Ulrike Brisson (Adjunct) and Guilherme Dourado (Contingent) Ghana Project Center: Development Design Lab with advisors Kwabena KyeiAboagye (Adjunct) and Aubrey Graham (Grad Student Adjunct) Hawaii Project Center with advisors Lauren Mathews (BBT) and Suzanne LePage (CEE) Hong Kong, China Project Center with advisors John Lindholm (Adjunct) and Clare Gillis (Adjunct) London, England Project Center with advisors Rick Vaz (Adjunct) and Chrys Demetry (Adjunct) Monteverde, Costa Rica Project Center with advisors Holly Ault (Adjunct) and Caitlin Ferrarini (DIGS) San Jose, Costa Rica Project Center with advisors Kim Hollan (School of Eng) and Jim Chiarelli (DIGS) San Juan, Puerto Rico Project Center with advisors JohnMichael Davis (DIGS) and Jessica Santos (Adjunct) Wellington, New Zealand Project Center with advisors Ingrid Shockey (DIGS) and Bob Kinicki (Adjunct) Worcester Community Project Center (Massachusetts) with advisor Laura Roberts (DIGS) CTerm Major Qualifying Project Nancy, France Project Center with advisor Steve Kmiotek (ChE) Facultystaff Kathleen Head Esther BoucherYip Accessibility Guidelines  Resources Report a barrier As a WPI faculty member, youll have a variety of learners in your teaching and interactions with students. Students are often as eager to learn as professors are to teach, but sometimes face challenges with access to the material, asking for help, or sharing their accommodation needs. This section provides you with some helpful resources to create a welcoming environment for students with disabilities and provide access to your course materials in various ways. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Accessibility Services for Faculty Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Accessibility Guidelines  Resources CONTACT Phone: 15088315000 PersonFirst Language and Etiquette Language can play an important role in making students feel comfortable approaching you to discuss accommodations. As a good rule of thumb, think about using personfirst language rather than putting the disability first. As an example, you would refer to a student with a common readingbased disability as a student with dyslexia instead of the dyslexic student. Individuals with disabilities are first and foremost people and do not want to be defined by hisher disability first. In fact, a student may choose not to share the specific disability with you but rather discuss functional limitations or how the disability will impact them in your classroom. Creating Accessible Materials A key point to course accessibility is to consider providing content multimodally so that students can access material in a variety of ways. You can create content to be friendly to screen readers or provide captions for those that may use them. OAS has created a Quick Tips and Tricks for Document Accessibility guide , though there are many additional resources available in this area. Below, we will focus on Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, Adobe Acrobat, and videos. Microsoft Word Creating an Accessible Office Document by Microsoft: selfpaced course providing handson practice for implementing accessibility features in the context of varying disabilities (3040 minutes) Creating Accessible Documents Video by Microsoft: short video providing a brief tutorial on creating alternative text for images, heading paragraph styles and using the accessibility checker (5 minutes) Microsoft Word by WebAIM (Web Accessibility in Mind): written tutorial including stepbystep instructions with pictures and screen shots. Topics cover how to use headings, alternative text for images, accessibility challenges with data tables, links, accessibility checker and how to convert a Word document to HTML and PDF. Adobe Acrobat PDF PDF Accessibility by WebAIM (Web Accessibility In Mind): written tutorial including stepbystep instructions with pictures and screen shots. Topics cover how to convert to accessible PDFs, use tags, use the Touch Up Reading Order tool as well as provide an overview of other tools and features. Creating an Accessible PDF in Adobe Acrobat by Algonquin College: short video reviewing how to use the Make Accessible feature, describing the document, recognizing text to OCR settings, and adding alternative text to images (4 minutes) Microsoft PowerPoint PowerPoint Accessibility by WebAIM (Web Accessibility In Mind): written tutorial including stepbystep instructions with pictures and screen shots. Topics covered include slide layouts, alternative text for images, accessibility challenges with data tables, links, outline and notes panels, accessibility checker, and converting PowerPoint to HTML and PDF. Creating Accessible PowerPoint Presentations Video by Algonquin College: short video reviewing stepbystep process to use builtin slide layouts, master slides, set tab orders, and avoid transitions and animations (5 minutes) Google Drive Grackle has a free addon to check for accessibility of Google Docs, Sheets or Slides. The free version has the ability to scan all documents in a Google Drive folder to assess whether they are accessible, or if accessibility improvements need to be made. Accessible Videos Creating Accessible Videos by Michigan State University: written guide providing instructions for creating captions and transcripts for videos. Links to related video tutorials and a free software download for transcribing materials are also provided. Additional Resources Disability Etiquette Guide : Created by the United Spinal Association to go into greater detail on interacting with people with disabilities overall as well as individuals with varying disability types The Faculty Room : Created by DOIT (Disabilities, Opportunities, Internetworking, and Technology) at the University of Washington to provide faculty with increased resources and best practices relating to students with disabilities in the classroom CAST : Nonprofit research and development organization that works to expand learning opportunities for all individuals, especially those with disabilities, through Universal Design for Learning Office of the Provost Faculty Directory Faculty Resources Office of Accessibility Services Application Requirements Graduate Programs Applying to WPIs graduate programs is a straightforward process designed to assess your academic and professional background. Admission requirements may vary by program, so its important to review the specific criteria for your area of interest. Most programs require transcripts, a statement of purpose, a rsum, and letters of recommendation, while some may also have additional requirements such as test scores or a portfolio. To ensure youre fully prepared, explore your program of interest below for detailed application requirements and deadlines. Steps to Apply International Applicants Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Graduate Admissions Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Application Requirements CONTACT Location: 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) Phone: 5088315301 Fax: 5088315694 gradwpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Instagram Icon of Instagram symbol Facebook Icon of Facebook logo LinkedIn Icon of LinkedIn Logo Search: App requirements by Program Application Requirements OnCampus Program Online Program DepartmentProgram Application Submission Deadline All Credentials Deadline Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Additional Information Application fee of 70 Letters of Recommendation GRE Statement of Purpose Aerospace Engineering MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Aerospace Engineering Online Degree Masters in Aerospace Engineering Online Department Aerospace Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required for online program only. Aerospace Engineering PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Aerospace Engineering Department Aerospace Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Applied Mathematics MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Applied Mathematics Department Mathematical Sciences Application Submission Deadline January 1 is the deadline to complete an application for full consideration for fall admission (we begin reviewing applications just after that date). October 31 is the last possible date to start an application for the spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Applied Physics MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Applied Physics Department Physics Application Submission Deadline Rolling. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Applied Physics PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Applied Physics Department Physics Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Recommended but not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Applied Statistics MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Applied Statistics Department Mathematical Sciences Application Submission Deadline January 1 is the deadline to complete an application for full consideration for fall admission (we begin reviewing applications just after that date). October 31 is the last possible date to start an application for the spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Artificial Intelligence in Business Certificate Application Requirements Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required. Letters of Recommendation Not required. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required. Artificial Intelligence MS Application Requirements OnCampusOnline Degree This track is offered for both an OnCampus and Online degree Department Computer Science Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for WPI students and alumni) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on the applicants qualifications for pursuing graduate study in the chosen field. Applicants are required to invite their recommenders to submit letters through the online application only. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. This is a brief essay discussing background, interests, academic intent, and the reasons the applicant feels she would benefit from the program. The statement of purpose must be submitted electronically with the online application. Additional Information College transcripts in English and the original language from all accredited degreegranting institutions attended are required. Admitted students must provide official transcripts with an indication that the bachelors degree has been awarded before they matriculate. Biochemistry MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Biochemistry Department Chemistry  Biochemistry Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Biochemistry PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Biochemistry Department Chemistry  Biochemistry Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Bioinformatics  Computational Biology MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Department Bioinformatics  Computational Biology Application Submission Deadline Students should apply by Jan 1 for fall. There is no spring intake for this program. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Required for all applicants; waived for WPI students and alumni. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Bioinformatics  Computational Biology PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Bioinformatics  Computational Biology Department Bioinformatics  Computational Biology Application Submission Deadline Students should apply by Jan 1 for fall. There is no spring intake for this program. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Required for all applicants; waived for WPI students and alumni. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Biology  Biotechnology MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Biology and Biotechnology Department Biology  Biotechnology Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 1 for the fall term. All applications must be submitted by Feb 1. There is no spring admission for this program. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Biology  Biotechnology PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Biology and Biotechnology Department Biology  Biotechnology Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Dec 1 for the fall term. All applications must be submitted by Feb 1. There is no spring admission for this program. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Strongly recommended Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Biomanufacturing Certificate Online Application Requirements Online Degree Life Sciences  Biomanufacturing Graduate Certificate Online Department Biology  Biotechnology Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Not required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Biomedical Engineering MEng Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master of Engineering in Biomedical Engineering Department Biomedical Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 1 for the fall term. There is no spring admission for this program. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Biomedical Engineering MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Biomedical Engineering Department Biomedical Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 1 for the fall term. There is no spring admission for this program. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Biomedical Engineering PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Biomedical Engineering Department Biomedical Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 1 for the fall term. There is no spring admission for this program. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Bioscience Management MS Application Requirements Online Degree Masters in Bioscience Management Online Department Biology  Biotechnology Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Biotechnology MS Application Requirements OnCampusOnline Degree This track is offered for both an OnCampus and Online degree Oncampus Degree Masters in Biotechnology Online Degree Online Masters in Biotechnology Department Biology  Biotechnology Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Business Administration in Analytics (MBA) Application Requirements Oncampus Degree MBA in Analytics Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for WPI students and alumni) GRE Not Required Letters of Recommendation 3 with one from a relevant nonacademic source Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. This is a brief essay discussing background, interests, academic intent, and the reasons the applicant feels she would benefit from the program. The statement of purpose must be submitted electronically with the online application. Additional Information Applicants to the MSBA are required to have at least one prior collegelevel statistics course with a grade of B or better. Business Administration MBA Application Requirements Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Two letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. Tell us who you are and why youre interested in our program. We want to know why you are pursuing this masters, what your longterm career goals are, and why you feel WPI will help you meet your goals. Additional Information Applicants are also required to have two years professional work experience (postgraduation from undergrad) by the start of the program. Business Administration PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Business Administration Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Application deadline for the fall semester is February 1st for domestic and international students. Applications submitted after the deadline will be reviewed on a case by case basis. We do not accept applications for the spring semester. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 1530 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE GMAT or GRE scores are required; waivers could be available for WPI alumni who have achieved a 3.0 GPA or higher and may be waived for applications with special circumstances. For more information please see below. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Academically qualified recommendations may be submitted, as needed. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Business Analytics MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Business Analytics Online Degree Masters in Business Analytics Online Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling. International applicants should apply by June 15 for fall and November 6 for spring. Domestic applicants should apply by July 15 for fall and December 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 1530 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Additional Information Applicants to the MSBA are also required to have at least one prior collegelevel statistics course with a grade of B or better. Business Certificate Application Requirements Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Chemical Engineering MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Chemical Engineering Department Chemical Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE The GRE is required of all applicants. The GRE is waived for any applicant applying with a bachelors degree from an accredited fouryear institution in the United States or Canada. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Chemical Engineering PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Chemical Engineering Department Chemical Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE The GRE is required of all applicants. The GRE is waived for any applicant applying with a bachelors degree from an accredited fouryear institution in the United States or Canada. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Chemical Engineering Professional MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Professional Masters Program in Chemical Engineering Department Chemical Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE The GRE is required of all applicants. The GRE is waived for any applicant applying with a bachelors degree from an accredited fouryear institution in the United States or Canada. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Chemistry MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Chemistry Online Degree MS in Chemistry Online: Medicinal Plant Chemistry Focus Department Chemistry  Biochemistry Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Chemistry PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Chemistry Department Chemistry  Biochemistry Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Civil Engineering MEng Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master of Engineering in Civil Engineering (MEng) Department Civil, Environmental,  Architectural Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Civil Engineering MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Civil Engineering Department Civil, Environmental,  Architectural Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Civil Engineering PhD Application Requirements Department Civil, Environmental,  Architectural Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Community Climate Adaptation Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Community Climate Adaptation Department Civil, Environmental,  Architectural Engineering , Integrative  Global Studies Application Submission Deadline This program only enrolls for the fall semester. There is no spring semester admission. Students seeking funding should apply by Jan 1 for fall semester admission. Funding is not guaranteed, but students who apply by 1 January will be considered when it is available. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for WPI students and alumni) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on the applicants qualifications for pursuing graduate study in the chosen field. Applicants are required to invite their recommenders to submit letters through the online application only. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. This is a brief essay discussing background, interests, academic intent, and the reasons the applicant feels she would benefit from the program. The statement of purpose must be submitted electronically with the online application. Additional Information College transcripts in English and the original language from all accredited degreegranting institutions attended are required. Admitted students must provide official transcripts with an indication that the bachelors degree has been awarded before they matriculate. Candidates for the CCA MS must meet WPIs requirements and have a BS in social science, environmental studiesscience, physical sciences, biological sciences, engineering, or other relevant field, with a minimum 3.25 GPA. Computational Media PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Computational Media Department Interactive Media  Game Development Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Portfolio Required ( guidelines ) Computer Science Certificate Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Computer Science Certificates Department Computer Science Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Computer Science MCS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master of Computer Science (MCS) Department Computer Science Application Submission Deadline Rolling. There is no spring intake for the oncampus program. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Computer Science MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master of Science in Computer Science (MS) Department Computer Science Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Computer Science PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Computer Science Department Computer Science Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Construction Project Management Certificate Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Construction Project Management Certificate Online Degree Construction Project Management Graduate Certificate Online Department Civil, Environmental,  Architectural Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required for online program only. Construction Project Management MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Construction Project Management Online Degree Civil Engineering: Master's in Environmental Engineering  Construction Project Management Online Department Civil, Environmental,  Architectural Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. Cyber Security MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Cyber Security Department Computer Science Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Data Science Certificate Application Requirements OnCampusOnline Degree This track is offered for both an OnCampus and Online degree Oncampus Degree Data Science Certificate Department Data Science Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Data Science MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Data Science Department Data Science Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 1 for fall and Oct 1 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Data Science PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Data Science Department Data Science Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Electrical  Computer Engineering Certificate Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Electrical  Computer Engineering Certificates Online Degree Electrical  Computer Engineering Graduate Certificate Online Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Electrical  Computer Engineering MEng Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Electrical  Computer Engineering MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Electrical and Computer Engineering Online Degree Master's in Electrical  Computer Engineering Online Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Electrical  Computer Engineering PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Electrical  Computer Engineering Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Environmental Engineering MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Environmental Engineering Online Degree Civil Engineering: Master's in Environmental Engineering  Construction Project Management Online Department Civil, Environmental,  Architectural Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Executive PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Executive PhD Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling deadline All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 1530 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE GMATGRE scores are not required, but the average score for admitted students is 630. Letters of Recommendation Two letters Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. As part of your Statement or Purpose, please include your proposed programs, areas of interest, and outcomes goals. During our review process, we will then attempt to pair you with a faculty member who is a good match to work with you in the program. If you have already identified a potential faculty member to be your advisor, please list them in your statement. Additional Information Requires 15 years of experience. Students are expected to have successfully demonstrated graduatelevel knowledge in a discipline that is relevant to the student's proposed concentration. Video Interview An interview may be offered once all credentials have arrived, but its not required. Explosion Protection Engineering MS Application Requirements OnCampusOnline Degree This track is offered for both an OnCampus and Online degree Department Fire Protection Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for WPI students and alumni) GRE Not Required Letters of Recommendation 3 Letters Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. This is a brief essay discussing background, interests, academic intent, and the reasons the applicant feels she would benefit from the program. The statement of purpose must be submitted electronically with the online application. Additional Information College transcripts in English and the original language from all accredited degreegranting institutions attended are required. Admitted students must provide official transcripts with an indication that the bachelors degree has been awarded before they matriculate. Explosion Protection Engineering Technical Certificate Application Requirements OnCampusOnline Degree This track is offered for both an OnCampus and Online degree Department Fire Protection Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for WPI students and alumni) GRE Not Required Letters of Recommendation Not Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. This is a brief essay discussing background, interests, academic intent, and the reasons the applicant feels she would benefit from the program. The statement of purpose must be submitted electronically with the online application. Additional Information College transcripts in English and the original language from all accredited degreegranting institutions attended are required. Admitted students must provide official transcripts with an indication that the bachelors degree has been awarded before they matriculate. Financial Technology (FinTech) Certificate Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Financial Technology Certificate Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Financial Technology (FinTech) MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Financial Technology (FinTech) Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but international applicants should apply by June 15 for fall and November 6 for spring, while domestic applicants should apply by July 15 for fall and December 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation submitted electronically via the online application from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Additional Information Applicants to the MS FinTech are required to have completed at least one prior collegelevel statistics course with a grade of B or better. Additional financeaccounting preparation is required. Financial Technology (FinTech) PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Financial Technology (FinTech) Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Application deadline for the fall semester is May 1st for domestic and international students. Applications submitted after the deadline will be reviewed on a casebycase basis. We do not accept applications for the spring semester. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE GMAT or GRE scores are optional; waivers could be available for WPI alumni who have achieved a 3.0 GPA or higher and may be waived for applications with special circumstances. For more information, please see below. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Academically qualified recommendations may be submitted, as needed. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. This is a brief essay discussing background, interests, academic intent, and the reasons the applicant feels they would benefit from the program. The statement of purpose must be submitted electronically with the online application. Fire Protection Engineering Certificate Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Fire Protection Engineering Certificates Online Degree Fire Protection Engineering Graduate Certificate Online Department Fire Protection Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Not required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Fire Protection Engineering MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Fire Protection Engineering Online Degree Master's in Fire Protection Engineering Online Department Fire Protection Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Requested for those without work experience. Fire Protection Engineering PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Fire Protection Engineering Department Fire Protection Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Global Health MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master of Science in Global Health Department Integrative  Global Studies Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for WPI students and alumni) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required from individuals who can comment on the applicants qualifications for pursuing graduate study in the chosen field. Applicants must invite their recommenders to submit letters through the online application only. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. This is a brief essay discussing background, interests, academic intent, and reasons the applicant feels she would benefit from the program. The statement of purpose must be submitted electronically with the online application. Additional Information A bachelor's degree in an area related to one of the four concentrations, or a minor in Global Health, or some direct experience in the field, is required. A strong applicant who is missing background coursework as needed for course requirements may be admitted, with the expectation that they will take and pass one or more undergraduate courses in this area of deficiency either during the summer prior to admission or within the first semester after admission. College transcripts in English and the original language from all accredited degreegranting institutions attended are required. Admitted students must provide official transcripts with an indication that the bachelors degree has been awarded before they matriculate. Health Systems Innovation Certificate Application Requirements Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Industrial Mathematics MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Industrial Mathematics Department Mathematical Sciences Application Submission Deadline January 1 is the deadline to complete an application for full consideration for fall admission (we begin reviewing applications just after that date). October 31 is the last possible date to start an application for the spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Information Technology Certificate Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Information Technology Certificate Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Information Technology MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Information Technology Online Degree Masters in Information Technology Online Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling. International applicants should apply by Jun 15 for fall and Nov 6 for spring. Domestic applicants should apply by Jul 15 for fall and Dec 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 1530 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Additional Information Applicants to the MSIT are required to have completed at least one prior collegelevel programming course and three semesters of collegelevel math or two semesters of collegelevel calculus with a grade of B or better. Innovation with User Experience Certificate Application Requirements OnCampusOnline Degree This track is offered for both an OnCampus and Online degree Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Integrated STEM Education MS Application Requirements Online Degree Masters in Integrated STEM Education Online Department STEM Education Center Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required. Letters of Recommendation 2 letters of recommendation from people familiar with your work as an educator and can speak about your pedagogical approach and experience. At least one letter should be from a current or past supervisor (e.g., Dept. Head, Principal, VicePrincipal, Instruct coach, etc.) in an educational setting. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. Applicants must identify how the program will support their professional and career goals. Interactive Media  Game Design (MFA) Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master of Fine Arts in Interactive Media  Game Design (MFA) Department Interactive Media  Game Development Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Portfolio Required ( guidelines ) ArtistDesignerWriters Statement Required ( guidelines ) Interactive Media  Game Development MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Interactive Media  Game Development Department Interactive Media  Game Development Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Two letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Portfolio Optional ( guidelines ) Learning Sciences  Technologies MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Learning Sciences  Technologies Department Learning Sciences  Technologies Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Strongly recommended for all applicants. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Writing Sample Required Statement of Purpose Required Learning Sciences  Technologies PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Learning Sciences  Technologies Department Learning Sciences  Technologies Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Strongly recommended for all applicants. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Writing Sample Required Statement of Purpose Required Life Sciences Management Certificate Application Requirements Online Degree Life Sciences  Biomanufacturing Graduate Certificate Online Department Biology  Biotechnology Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Management MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Management Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline International applicants should apply by Jun 15 for fall and Nov 6 for spring. Domestic applicants should apply by Jul 15 for fall and Dec 15 for spring. Decisions are made on a rolling basis. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 1530 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Additional Information This program is only available for BSMS students. Manufacturing Engineering Certificate Application Requirements Department Manufacturing Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Manufacturing Engineering MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Manufacturing Engineering Online Degree Masters in Manufacturing Engineering Online Department Manufacturing Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE The GRE is required of all applicants. The GRE is waived for any applicant applying with a bachelors degree from an accredited fouryear institution in the United States or Canada. Letters of Recommendation Two letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. An additional letter of recommendation may be submitted as optional. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Manufacturing Engineering PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Manufacturing Engineering Department Manufacturing Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE The GRE is required of all applicants. The GRE is waived for any applicant applying with a bachelors degree from an accredited fouryear institution in the United States or Canada. Letters of Recommendation Two letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. An additional letter of recommendation may be submitted as optional. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Master of Architecture Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master of Architecture Department Civil, Environmental,  Architectural Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not Required Letters of Recommendation 3 with one from a relevant nonacademic source Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required  Provide goals as part of this submission Additional Information Portfolio of creative work Resume Materials Science  Engineering MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Material Science  Engineering Online Degree Masters in Materials Science Online Department Materials Science  Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE The GRE is required of all applicants. The GRE is waived for any applicant applying with a bachelors degree from an accredited fouryear institution in the United States or Canada. Letters of Recommendation Two letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. An additional letter of recommendation may be submitted as optional. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Materials Science  Engineering PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Materials Science  Engineering Department Materials Science  Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE The GRE is required of all applicants. The GRE is waived for any applicant applying with a bachelors degree from an accredited fouryear institution in the United States or Canada. Letters of Recommendation Two letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. An additional letter of recommendation may be submitted as optional. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Mathematical Sciences PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Mathematical Sciences Department Mathematical Sciences Application Submission Deadline January 1st is the last date to submit an application for full consideration for fall admission that year. March 31st is the last day to start an application for the fall, and October 31st is the last day for the following spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE GRE math subject test is strongly recommended Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Mathematics for Educators MME Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Mathematics for Educators (MME) Department Mathematical Sciences Application Submission Deadline Applications are accepted yearround for admission to the fall (August) or spring (January) semester. Students can begin taking courses before formal admission to the program, but should consult with the program director before enrolling. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Mathematics for Educators MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Mathematics for Educators (MMED) Department Mathematical Sciences Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Mechanical Engineering for Technical Leaders (METL) Certificate Application Requirements Online Degree Mechanical Engineering for Technical Leaders (METL) Graduate Certificate Online Department Mechanical  Materials Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Mechanical Engineering MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Mechanical Engineering Online Degree Masters in Mechanical Engineering Online Department Mechanical  Materials Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Mechanical Engineering PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Mechanical Engineering Department Mechanical  Materials Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Neuroscience MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Neuroscience Department Neuroscience Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for WPI students and alumni) GRE The GRE is recommended of all applicants. The GRE is waived for any applicant applying with a bachelors degree from an accredited fouryear institution in the United States or Canada. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Nuclear Science and Engineering Certificate Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Nuclear Science  Engineering Certificate Department Physics Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Operations and Supply Chain Analytics MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Operations  Supply Chain Analytics Online Degree Masters in Operations and Supply Chain Analytics Online Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling. International applicants should apply by Jun 15 for fall and Nov 6 for spring. Domestic applicants should apply by Jul 15 for fall and Dec 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 1530 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Physics for Educators MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Physics for Educators (MPED) Department Physics Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Physics MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Masters in Physics Department Physics Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Physics PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Physics Department Physics Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Recommended Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Power Systems Engineering Certificate Application Requirements Online Degree Graduate Certificates in Power Systems Online Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Not required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Power Systems Engineering MEng Application Requirements Online Degree Master's in Power Systems Engineering Online (MEng) Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE The GRE is required of all applicants. The GRE is waived for any applicant applying with a bachelors degree from an accredited fouryear institution in the United States or Canada. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Optional Power Systems Management Certificate Application Requirements Online Degree Graduate Certificates in Power Systems Online Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Not required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Power Systems Management MS Application Requirements Online Degree Master's in Power Systems Management Online Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE The GRE is required of all applicants. The GRE is waived for any applicant applying with a bachelors degree from an accredited fouryear institution in the United States or Canada. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Robotics Engineering Certificate Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Robotics Engineering Graduate Certificate Online Degree Graduate Certificates in Robotics Engineering Online Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Not required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Robotics Engineering MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Robotics Engineering Online Degree Master's in Robotics Engineering Online Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for online program) GRE Highly recommended but not required. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Robotics Engineering PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Robotics Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Highly recommended but not required. Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Science and Technology for Innovation in Global Development Certificate Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Science, Technology, and Innovation for Global Development Certificate Department Social Science  Policy Studies Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Science and Technology for Innovation in Global Development MS Application Requirements Oncampus Degree Master's in Science and Technology for Innovation in Global Development Department Social Science  Policy Studies Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Our program requires two letters from employers, supervisors, professors, instructors, or others who are able to comment on your professional and educational goals and potential (no friends or relatives, please). These references should be able to judge your qualifications  including intellectual and analytical ability, oral and written communication skills, independence, initiative, and drive necessary for success in graduate coursework andor research, if applicable. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. Please provide a Statement of Purpose in which you discuss your professional goals, academic interests, andor research interests, as well as your plans for achieving these goals. Please indicate specific faculty members with whom you would like to work. Please also discuss your specific educational, professional, or other experiences that will contribute to your success in the program and in your career. This statement should not exceed 800 words. Secure Programming Certificate Application Requirements OnCampusOnline Degree This track is offered for both an OnCampus and Online degree Department Computer Science Application Submission Deadline Rolling. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required. Letters of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required. Statistics PhD Application Requirements Oncampus Degree PhD in Statistics Department Mathematical Sciences Application Submission Deadline January 1 is the deadline to complete an application for full consideration for fall admission (we begin reviewing applications just after that date). October 31 is the last possible date to start an application for the spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Supply Chain Analytics Certificate Application Requirements Online Degree Graduate Certificates in Supply Chain Online Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One Letter of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Supply Chain Essentials Certificate Application Requirements Online Degree Graduate Certificates in Supply Chain Online Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation One Letter of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the online application. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required System Dynamics PhD Application Requirements Department Social Science  Policy Studies Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Systems Engineering Certificate Application Requirements Online Degree Systems Engineering Graduate Certificate Online Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not Required Letters of Recommendation Not required Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required Systems Engineering Leadership MS Application Requirements Online Degree Master's in Systems Engineering  Systems Engineering Leadership Online Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Systems Engineering MS Application Requirements Online Degree Master's in Systems Engineering  Systems Engineering Leadership Online Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Rolling All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Systems Engineering PhD Application Requirements Online Degree PhD in Systems Engineering Online Department Electrical  Computer Engineering Application Submission Deadline Faculty review applications for this program 2x per year: November 1 (Spring) and March 1 (Fall). All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Resume Required Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Systems Modeling MS Application Requirements Department Social Science  Policy Studies Application Submission Deadline Rolling, but students seeking funding should apply by Jan 15 for fall and Oct 15 for spring. All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Required GRE Required Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your qualifications for pursuing graduate study are required. Please invite your recommenders to submit their letters electronically via the application. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Teaching Cyber Security for High School Teachers Certificate Application Requirements OnCampusOnline Degree This track is offered for both an OnCampus and Online degree Oncampus Degree Teaching Cyber Security for High School Teachers Certificate Department Cybersecurity Application Submission Deadline January 15, 2025 All Credentials Deadline We recommend completing your application within 30 days of submission. Application fee of 70 Not Required GRE Not Required Letters of Recommendation Not required, but a support letter is required from your administration explaining their commitment to continue offering cybersecurity at the school. Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Not required but provide a copy of your cyber security course descriptionsyllabus. WPI  NUTM Application Requirements Department The Business School Application Submission Deadline Apply by Nov. 15 for spring (January start). All Credentials Deadline Application decisions are generally delivered within 1014 Business Days. Application fee of 70 Required (waived for WPI students and alumni) GRE Not required Letters of Recommendation Three Letters of Recommendation (HRSupervisor recommendation will be accepted). Transcripts for all postsecondary colleges or universities Required Statement of Purpose Required Additional Information USE CODE: WPINUTM to get application waiver. Steps to Apply Start Your Application Application Submission Guidelines  Checklist Please visit the Steps to Apply page (seen above) for stepbystep instructions on starting your application. You can also download our interactive application checklist to help you stay organized when gathering documents for your application. You do not need to complete the application in one sitting. After you submit your application you will not be able to make changes. If you have questions along the way, please contact us at gradwpi.edu . For Business Schoolspecific questions, contact businesswpi.edu . IMPORTANT: Do not mail any documents to WPI . All required credentials should be provided electronically through the application. Paper documents mailed to our office will be discarded. Applicants who are admitted and enroll at WPI will be required to submit final and official transcripts from any university that issued a degree or where classes were taken that counted towards the degree. We will accept mailed final and official transcripts. Requirements English Language Proficiency Requirement (ELP) Applicants seeking to attend WPI whose native language it not English must submit official TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo scores. Most programs require a minimum TOEFL score of 84, IELTS score of 6.5, or Duolingo score of 115. The minimum band score for IELTS is 6.5. The Business Masters programs require a minimum TOEFL score of 90, IELTS score of 7, or Duolingo score of 115. The Business PHD program requires a minimum TOEFL score of 100 or IELTS score of 7.5. If an applicant has completed two years (four semesters) of fulltime continuous postsecondary study in an Englishspeaking country within the last five years, they can request an English language proficiency waiver by emailing gradwpi.edu . If an applicant has three or more years of work experience inside the United States, they can also request an English language proficiency waiver by emailing gradwpi.edu . WPI accepts the TOEFL home test. We will not accept paper IELTS test report forms. Please use the following link to send the official Duolingo scores to WPI. EnglishSpeaking Countries Any international applicant whose native language is not English, and is seeking to attend WPI, must submit official TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo scores. However, if applicants have completed two years (four semesters) of fulltime continuous postsecondary study in an Englishspeaking country (see the list below), within the last five years, they can request an English proficiency waiver by emailing gradwpi.edu . Antigua Australia Bahamas Barbados Barbuda Belize Bermuda Botswana Canada (except Quebec) Cayman Islands Commonwealth Caribbean Dominica England (UK) Eswatini Falkland Islands Fiji Gambia Ghana Gibraltar Grand Turks and the Caicos Islands Grenada Guyana Hong Kong Ireland, Republic of Isle of Man Jamaica, Republic of Kenya Lesotho Liberia Malawi Montserrat Namibia New Zealand Nigeria Northern Ireland (UK) Papua New Guinea Pitcairn Islands Rwanda Scotland (UK) Sierra Leone Singapore South Africa (except if language of instruction was Afrikaans) South Sudan St. Helena St. Kitts  Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent  the Grenadines Swaziland Tanzania Tobago Trinidad Uganda United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States (except Puerto Rico) Virgin Islands Wales (UK) Zambia Zimbabwe GRE Requirement Several WPI programs require or strongly recommend the GRE. Please review the application requirements page to identify if the test is required. There are no minimum GRE scores, but the average for admitted students is typically 150 verbal, 165 quantitative, and 3.0 analytical. Sending Official Test Scores to WPI Contact ETS and have your scores released to us if they are required. Our institution code is 3969 , and all departments use the same code . All Business Programs For all graduate programs in The WPI Business School, the minimum score for the TOEFL exam is 90, the IELTS minimum score is 7, and the Duolingo minimum score is 115. For PhD applicants, a TOEFL minimum score of 100 (internet based) or an IELTS band score of 7.5 is required. Duolingo scores are not accepted for The Business Schools PhD programs. Learn more about our ESL waiver policies. The GMATGRE is optional for all programs in The Business School except for the PhD in Business Administration. PhD in Business Administration Minimum GMAT score of 600 or its equivalent on the GRE taken within the last 5 years. The WPI alum GMATGRE waiver policy does not apply to the PhD program, and a WPI alum must submit their GMATGRE scores Master's degree from an accredited U.S. college or university or an approved foreign equivalent institution Grade point averages of 3.5 or better in all prior undergraduate and graduate studies Military  Active Service WPI encourages applicants who are Service members to speak with their Educational Services Officer (ESO) or another educational counselor within their area of military service prior to enrolling at WPI. Your Application Status Your application will only move forward for review once all of the required materials are received. After you submit your application, you will receive a link to an application status page where you can check that all of your application requirements have been met. Once your application is marked as complete, you will receive an email that your application is under review. Each completed application is personally reviewed by the academic department. Admission decisions may take six to eight weeks from the time that your application is marked as complete . Please note , if you submit your application before the priority deadline for a given semester, application review will not begin until the priority deadline has passed. If you submit your application prior to the deadline, please allow 68 weeks after the deadline for your application to be reviewed. Once a decision is made on your application, you will receive an email notification to login to the application status page and view your decision letter. International Students WPI welcomes students from around the world to join our graduate programs, offering a vibrant and diverse community for international students. Discover the resources and support available to help you navigate the application process and succeed in your academic journey at WPI including transcript information, degree equivalencies from our top countries , and more. Application Requirements Graduate Course Catalog Admitted students Business Week Don't miss this year's Business Week hosted by WPI Business School! Join us as STEM and Business converge, igniting innovation and growth. Engage with luminaries, mentors, and cuttingedge tech through bootcamps, panel discussions and networking events. Save the Date! November 11  November 15 Click here to learn more about events and register! Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left The Business School Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Business Week CONTACT Location: Washburn Shops Phone: 5088315218 businesswpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Facebook Icon of Facebook logo LinkedIn Icon of LinkedIn Logo Master of Fine Arts in Interactive Media  Game Design (MFA) Master of Fine Arts Request Information Apply Develop your creative practice and personal voice as an artist in IMGD. The Master of Fine Arts program offers a terminal degree through WPIs renowned IMGD program where our academic approach, resources, and connections will refine your artistic practice and innovate using new creative technologies with WPIs new MFA in IMGD. This art and studiobased masters program gives students space, time, and resources to develop their creative practice. As a terminal degree, this threeyear MFA program helps independent artists establish their creative voices. Integrated into the degree are careerdevelopment opportunities including training in teaching methods and networking with industry and academic leaders through a regular colloquium. Professionals who hold an MFA in interactive media  game design have a focus thats expanded above game design MFA concepts and are prepared for tenuretrack academic roles, teaching positions, and also for careers the wide variety of industries that rely upon professional design sensibilities including corporate and cultural organizations, experiencebased product corporations, or fullbody immersive game experiences. WPI is an institutional partner with the Worcester Art Museum and the Worcester Center for Crafts , and has extensive connections with established industry organizations and startups. Global Industries and economies rely on professional design sensibilities. WPIs new master of fine arts in interactive media  game design is focused on filling that industry need and preparing students for myriad design opportunities and careers. Graduate Admissions Application Requirements Getting Admitted Curriculum The MFA in interactive media  game design is a 51credit hour program. Courses are studiobased, classroombased, and careerfocused. A final project requires students to show a game in a public settinga full portfolio is required for degree completion. The range of skills required for the final project is broad and based on the chosen project. Potential IMGD MFA projects could range from digital games to interactive theatre, so each academic plan is customized to the student. Requirements for the MFA in interactive media  game design: Design studio (12 credits) Core courses (21 credits) Professionalization (6 credits) Elective courses (3 credits) Project (9 credits) Statement of purpose Portfolio Similar Majors Master's in Interactive Media  Game Development Masters in Learning Sciences  Technologies PhD in Computational Media Research Students in the MFA program will work with IMGD faculty members and industry partners to produce a distinct body of work and to develop a personal artistic style. Our faculty expertise spans these diverse research areas: animation 3D modeling artificial intelligence computer graphics figurative painting networking and multiplayer games illustration electronic music and music composition artistic  musical robotics interactive museum exhibits locationaware media procedural content generation mobile gaming serious games virtual and augmented reality As a studiobased degree program, students in WPIs MFA program have access to resources in the Worcester Art Museum and the Worcester Center for Crafts . WPI offers an ideal combination of arts education with cuttingedge interactive media  game design resources. If art, gaming, experience design, and creative computing are among your passions, this program will give you the freedom to develop your personal artistic style while gaining the professional acumen to be successful in academia, the game industry, and other industries. Not quite ready to pursue an IMGD MFA? Explore our Interactive Media  Game Development master of science . This technical masters in game development has an emphasis on design, technology, and the development of interactive environments. Research  Facilities WEBINARS Graduate Studies Series. Team members from Graduate  Professional Studies host quick and convenient webinars designed to highlight popular topics when starting grad school. Take a deep dive into specific areas of interest such as how to secure funding, how to ace your application, an overview of student services, and more! Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right VIEW PAST WEBINARS ON DEMAND Interactive Media  Game Development Program Computer Science Humanities  Arts Faculty Profiles Edward Gutierrez Assistant Professor, Humanities  Arts Edward R. Gutierrez comes to WPI from a long career in the animated feature film industry; having worked on films such as The Little Mermaid (1989), Beauty and the Beast (1991), The Lion King (1994), The Emperors New Groove (2000) and many others. Professionally he is now a prolific independent filmmaker who concentrates on conservation of the environment and social issues. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Joshua Rosenstock Professor, Humanities  Arts Born to an artist mother and a musician father, Josh was destined from a young age for a life in the arts. An early interest in black and white darkroom photography and arthouse cinema led him to study film and video art at Brown University. Fortuitously stumbling on a new course in multimedia art in his last term as an undergraduate, his zeal for digital media was unleashed. The next formative episode in Josh's career found him designing interactive exhibits, such as the claymation studio at Zeum, a handson, multimedia arts and technology museum for kids in San Francisco. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Farley Chery Associate Professor of Teaching, Interactive Media  Game Development Farley Chery specializes in simplifying artistic and technical concepts. Having a multidisciplinary background, he works with students in his specialized area of Technical art and other areas of experimentation like storytelling, and experimental game mechanics. Systems he created have been used in multiple games and films and are a core component of Epic games character pipeline and the basis for ART tools. His courses fuse representation, worldbuilding, and character design; preparing students to be highly productive production artists. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Gillian Smith Associate Professor, Computer Science Gillian Smith, an awardwinning game designer, joined WPI in 2017. Her interdisciplinary work merges technical research in AI and HCI with creative practice in textiles and games, with a view towards addressing social issues and broadening participation and perspectives on computing. Their research interests are in computational creativity, game design, computer science education, and the intersection of traditional crafts and computation. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Gillian Smith Associate Professor, Computer Science Gillian Smith, an awardwinning game designer, joined WPI in 2017. Her interdisciplinary work merges technical research in AI and HCI with creative practice in textiles and games, with a view towards addressing social issues and broadening participation and perspectives on computing. Their research interests are in computational creativity, game design, computer science education, and the intersection of traditional crafts and computation. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Charles Roberts Associate Professor, Computer Science My research examines humancentered computing in digital arts practice. I designed and developed a creative coding environment for the browser, Gibber ( ), that I use both for educational research and audiovisual performances. Gibber is used to teach computational media to middle school, high school and university students in locations around the world, and I've performed with it throughout the US, UK and Asia in the experimental performance genre known as live coding. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Edward Gutierrez Assistant Professor, Humanities  Arts Edward R. Gutierrez comes to WPI from a long career in the animated feature film industry; having worked on films such as The Little Mermaid (1989), Beauty and the Beast (1991), The Lion King (1994), The Emperors New Groove (2000) and many others. Professionally he is now a prolific independent filmmaker who concentrates on conservation of the environment and social issues. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Joshua Rosenstock Professor, Humanities  Arts Born to an artist mother and a musician father, Josh was destined from a young age for a life in the arts. An early interest in black and white darkroom photography and arthouse cinema led him to study film and video art at Brown University. Fortuitously stumbling on a new course in multimedia art in his last term as an undergraduate, his zeal for digital media was unleashed. The next formative episode in Josh's career found him designing interactive exhibits, such as the claymation studio at Zeum, a handson, multimedia arts and technology museum for kids in San Francisco. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Farley Chery Associate Professor of Teaching, Interactive Media  Game Development Farley Chery specializes in simplifying artistic and technical concepts. Having a multidisciplinary background, he works with students in his specialized area of Technical art and other areas of experimentation like storytelling, and experimental game mechanics. Systems he created have been used in multiple games and films and are a core component of Epic games character pipeline and the basis for ART tools. His courses fuse representation, worldbuilding, and character design; preparing students to be highly productive production artists. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Gillian Smith Associate Professor, Computer Science Gillian Smith, an awardwinning game designer, joined WPI in 2017. Her interdisciplinary work merges technical research in AI and HCI with creative practice in textiles and games, with a view towards addressing social issues and broadening participation and perspectives on computing. Their research interests are in computational creativity, game design, computer science education, and the intersection of traditional crafts and computation. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Gillian Smith Associate Professor, Computer Science Gillian Smith, an awardwinning game designer, joined WPI in 2017. Her interdisciplinary work merges technical research in AI and HCI with creative practice in textiles and games, with a view towards addressing social issues and broadening participation and perspectives on computing. Their research interests are in computational creativity, game design, computer science education, and the intersection of traditional crafts and computation. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Charles Roberts Associate Professor, Computer Science My research examines humancentered computing in digital arts practice. I designed and developed a creative coding environment for the browser, Gibber ( ), that I use both for educational research and audiovisual performances. Gibber is used to teach computational media to middle school, high school and university students in locations around the world, and I've performed with it throughout the US, UK and Asia in the experimental performance genre known as live coding. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Edward Gutierrez Assistant Professor, Humanities  Arts Edward R. Gutierrez comes to WPI from a long career in the animated feature film industry; having worked on films such as The Little Mermaid (1989), Beauty and the Beast (1991), The Lion King (1994), The Emperors New Groove (2000) and many others. Professionally he is now a prolific independent filmmaker who concentrates on conservation of the environment and social issues. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right read more Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Have questions? WPI's dedicated graduate student support team can help. Find Student Support by Program Refer a Friend Do you have a friend, colleague, or family member who might be interested in a WPI graduate program? Click below to tell them about our programs. REFER A FRIEND Earn a BS in Game Development Beforehand Need to complete your bachelor of science degree first? Check out our BS in IMGD at WPI. We also offer an artistic bachelors degree in game development which challenges students to reinvent and create forms of media. Do you want to gain a technical understanding of IMGD without completing a full degree program? You can choose to minor in IMGD to understand the basic technical concepts of interactive media  game development. Whether youre looking for a technical BS, artistic BS, or a minor in game development, we are here to help steer you in the direction most suitable for your future career. Apply Now Masters in Mechanical Engineering Online Master of Science Request Information Apply WPIs groundbreaking and comprehensive mechanical engineering program has been leading the industry for more than 150 years. As a student in the online Mechanical Engineering masters, you will gain the knowledge and skills needed to push the boundaries of analysis, design, and manufacturing as you customize a program that leverages your professional expertise in mechanical engineering and meets career and lifestyle goals. Students can earn their online master's degree in mechanical engineering in only two years. Working closely with their faculty advisors, will develop a customized and relevant plan of study for the MS in Mechanical Engineering online program, allowing them to: Perform detailed stress analysis to create designs that are both structurally robust and costeffective Select materials to maximize functionality and performance while minimizing costs Model the kinematics and dynamics of complex multiaxial mechanical systems for more efficient and reliable designs Execute advanced analyses of fluid dynamics to improve process efficiency and properly size the components of a fluid system. Produce designs which are optimized for manufacturing so that they can be made more quickly at lower cost Also available online: Mechanical Engineering for Technical Leaders (METL) Graduate Certificate . Take your managerial and technical skills to another level with our graduate certificate. This program is perfect for engineers looking to advance into leadership roles. If you prefer to complete your masters in mechanical engineering on campus, we invite you to explore our campus MS program . Our oncampus mechanical engineering masters enables students to connect with expert faculty and likeminded students. Graduate Admissions Application Requirements Take a course This program is also available on campus Learn more Refer a Friend Do you have a friend, colleague, or family member who might be interested in a WPI graduate program? Click below to tell them about our programs. REFER A FRIEND HELPFUL RESOURCE Grad Studies Blog: Catalyst. Explore Catalyst , our graduate school blog, where youll find student stories, expert insights, and answers to common questions. Whether youre a prospective, admitted, or current grad student, its your goto source for STEM perspectives, career advice, and essential tipsall in one place. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right READ NOW WEBINARS Graduate Studies Series. Team members from Graduate  Professional Studies host quick and convenient webinars designed to highlight popular topics when starting grad school. Take a deep dive into specific areas of interest such as how to secure funding, how to ace your application, an overview of student services, and more! Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right VIEW PAST WEBINARS ON DEMAND What our students have to say Title 4. Independence Body "The WPI online graduate program allowed me to pursue my career goals while working on a Masters degree in Mechanical Engineering. During my 5th year of a BSMS program I was offered an internship opportunity at Apple that I couldn't refuse. The online graduate program allowed me to continue working on my degree, while providing an environment that made me feel as though I hadn't left the classroom. Participating remotely on a project team for SYS 501. Core Concepts of Systems Engineering, taught me how to be an effective member of an internationally distributed project team. " Brad Mello Senior Field Applications Engineer, Veo Robotics Waltham, MA Start Expanded Off "Im more than halfway through the mechanical engineering graduate program at WPI and Ive already seen an increase in my responsibilities at work and earned a job promotion... WPI is flexible and its been very worthwhile. I only wish I had started earlier." Jim Daniel Flow Engineer, ALDEN "The WPI name speaks for itself and pursuing a graduate degree here has given me a competitive edge over other engineers....WPI has certainly led me down the path of career success with my employer." John Courtney Manufacturing Engineer Smith  Wesson, Springfield, Massachusetts Title 4. Independence Body "The WPI online graduate program allowed me to pursue my career goals while working on a Masters degree in Mechanical Engineering. During my 5th year of a BSMS program I was offered an internship opportunity at Apple that I couldn't refuse. The online graduate program allowed me to continue working on my degree, while providing an environment that made me feel as though I hadn't left the classroom. Participating remotely on a project team for SYS 501. Core Concepts of Systems Engineering, taught me how to be an effective member of an internationally distributed project team. " Brad Mello Senior Field Applications Engineer, Veo Robotics Waltham, MA Start Expanded Off "Im more than halfway through the mechanical engineering graduate program at WPI and Ive already seen an increase in my responsibilities at work and earned a job promotion... WPI is flexible and its been very worthwhile. I only wish I had started earlier." Jim Daniel Flow Engineer, ALDEN "The WPI name speaks for itself and pursuing a graduate degree here has given me a competitive edge over other engineers....WPI has certainly led me down the path of career success with my employer." John Courtney Manufacturing Engineer Smith  Wesson, Springfield, Massachusetts Title 4. Independence Body "The WPI online graduate program allowed me to pursue my career goals while working on a Masters degree in Mechanical Engineering. During my 5th year of a BSMS program I was offered an internship opportunity at Apple that I couldn't refuse. The online graduate program allowed me to continue working on my degree, while providing an environment that made me feel as though I hadn't left the classroom. Participating remotely on a project team for SYS 501. Core Concepts of Systems Engineering, taught me how to be an effective member of an internationally distributed project team. " Brad Mello Senior Field Applications Engineer, Veo Robotics Waltham, MA Start Expanded Off Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Admissions Qualifications for MS in Mechanical Engineering Online Applicants to the MS in Mechanical Engineering online should have a BS in mechanical engineering or a related field, such as other engineering disciplines, physics, or mathematics. Major GPA greater than 3.0 is preferred. Test scores, and other required application documents, can be found here. For specific application requirements, visit application requirements page. If you need to obtain your bachelor's first, check out WPI's BS in Mechanical Engineering . Curriculum Program Requirements The online Master's in Mechanical Engineering is a nonthesis degree with a minimum of 30 credit hours, including: 18 graduate credits in mechanical engineering 3 graduate credits in mathematics 9 graduate credits of electives within or outside of mechanical engineering Thesis option: Currently, WPIs online graduate programs do not offer a thesis option, as theses cannot be completed online. View academic term start dates for online courses. Courses ME 500. Applied Analytical Methods in Engineering ME 5001. Applied Numerical Methods in Engineering ME 501. Robot Dynamics ME 514. Fluid Dynamics ME 516. Heat Transfer ME 5202. Advanced Dynamics ME 5205. Biomedical Robotics ME 521. Legged Robotics ME 5225. Fiber Optical Sensors ME 5303. Applied Finite Element Methods in Engineering ME 5311. Structures and Properties of Engineering Materials ME 5312. Properties and Performance of Engineering Materials ME 5332. XRay Diffraction and Crystallography ME 5356. Smart Materials ME 5358. Plastics ME 5359. Biomedical Materials ME 5371. Fundamentals of Surface Metrology ME 5380. Foundations of Elasticity ME 5381. Applied Elasticity ME 5420. Fundamentals of Axiomatic Design of Manufacturing Processes ME 5431. Computer Integrated Manufacturing ME 5441. Design for Manufacturability ME 593. ST: Design and Optimization of Thermal Systems ME 593. ST: Printed Electronics and Sensors To find the next offering of online Mechanical Engineering courses, visit the Registrars site . To view a course description, visit the Graduate Catalog. Subject to change based on availability. Graduate Student Resources Meet the Admissions Team Take a Course Not sure if online learning works for you? Try a course to see if this program delivery is right for you. Have questions? WPI's dedicated graduate student support team can help. Find Student Support by Program From onsite recruiting events to live and ondemand webinars, learn more and stay connected with WPIs Graduate  Professional Studies. Graduate News and Events After Graduation Graduates find opportunities in the manufacturing, professional, scientific, and technical services industries, as well as in government and academia. Alumni of WPIs Mechanical Engineering program work for GE Aircraft Engines, Keurig, WymanGordon Company, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Bose Corporation, Sikorsky, and more. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Career Outlook Mechanical Engineering Department Formally Apply The Mechanical Engineering Department is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. PREVIOUS ANNOUNCEMENT Green World: Michelle Ephraim and John McNeill in Conversation April 3 NEXT ANNOUNCEMENT Cybersecurity Careers  SECURE IT March 2024 Guidance for DTerm High Holy Days Department(s): Collegiate Religious Center March 14, 2024 Guidance for DTerm Holy Days Holy Days or Days of Awe are observed across religious and spiritual traditions. These dates and periods of observance mark sacred time in the practices of those who hold identities around religious and religiocultural traditions. For our campus community, we strive to make the Holy Days Calendar and guidance as accurate as possible and to describe the holy days, their significance, and the nature of observance correctly. If you find a mistake, please let the Collegiate Religious Center know by email diversitywpi.edu . During DTerm , we recommend a few Holy days in which no major University sponsored events should be scheduled. We also ask that our community be aware of how these sacred periods of observance might require changes in eating patterns or fasting , which is not limited to one faith tradition in practice. With these lifestyle changes, changes in sleeping, eating, and physical activity levels are consequently affected. These changes can also affect the health and nutritional status of students and employees. Thus, our students and colleagues may be hungry, tired, lethargic, or dehydrated periodically throughout their day. For our Christian community , Ash Wednesday (February 14) will commemorate the period of time leading up to the death and resurrection of Jesus. Ash Wednesday will begin this period of The Great Lent (February 14  March 30) celebrated by Christians. Orthodox Christians and Western Christians share the belief that Jesus is believed to be the Savior, the Son of God. This period of time is a time of fasting and repentance in remembrance of the account of Jesus 40 days of fasting in the desert. People will enter into a time of contemplation, which can include a conscious review of spiritual life and journey. Classes will be held during the Lenten Season . Students and employees are likely to abstain from eating and drinking during the day from dawn to sunset. With this lifestyle change, changes in sleeping, eating, and physical activity levels are consequently affected. The Lenten Season ends with Easter celebrations ((C)  March 31th, (P)  March 31th (O) May 5th)) and students are likely to travel home or off campus during the sacred time. We also have a few recommendations for supporting the WPI Community: Be aware that many people may fast or give up certain foods or activities during Great Lent. This may not be a good time for large celebrations centered on food. If food is provided, vegetarian and pescatarian options are advised. Some Orthodox Christians may observe Ash Wednesday. For this years Lent, Dining Services will be providing support for Dietary Needs. Please reach out to Christian Carrasquillo at ccorederowpi.edu for more information. For our Islam community, Ramadan (March 10) begins the holy month. Ramadan is the 9th month in the Islamic lunar calendar. It is a month of fasting, worship, service, communal gathering, and spiritual development. Classes will be held during the Ramadan Season, and students and employees are likely to abstain from eating and drinking during the day from dawn to sunset, eating only within a short overnight period. With this lifestyle change, changes in sleeping, eating, and physical activity levels are consequently affected. Some may declare the month to begin a day before or after the predicted date. Likewise, the holiday commemorating the end of fasting, most often called Eid alFitr (April 10th) may fall on different days according to varying family, cultural, or interpretive preferences in DTerm. We also have a few recommendations for supporting the WPI Community: Be aware when Ramadan begins and ends. Assuming they are in good health, Muslim staff members, faculty members and students may be fasting during Ramadan. It is good to bear this in mind when planning activities, parties, etc., that involve food or beverages. Muslims may want to pray more frequently during Ramadan, so providing a private space for prayer is important. Many may want to take time off for the conclusion of Ramadan, called Eid alFitr. This is a time of celebration with gift giving and traditional foods. Muslim studentsemployees will fast during daylight hours, which may result in less stamina. Avoid scheduling important academic deadlines, events, and activities on Eid alFitr. For evening events, provide food accommodations as requested (Islamic dietary restrictions apply). For this years Ramadan , Dining Services will be providing meals are available in Morgan Hall from March 10 through April 9. Please reach out to Christian Carrasquillo at ccorederowpi.edu for more information. A survey has also been created to reflect information about this, which can be found at Link: Dine On Campus at Worcester Polytechnic Institute  Ramadan For our Jewish community, Passover marks the liberation of the children of Israel from bondage and their subsequent exodus from Egypt in an (8) day (April 22  30) celebration. A Passover seder  a meal following a specific ritual order retelling the story of the exodus, and including prayers, songs, and special food  is one of the most observed Jewish practices. In addition to attending seders, many Jewish individuals observe Passover by refraining from eating or benefiting from chametz  bread or wheatgrain products, for the duration of the holiday. WPI does hold classes during the Passover season. With this lifestyle change, changes in sleeping, eating, and physical activity levels are consequently affected. Wednesday April 30th marks the end of Passover and students are likely to travel home or off campus during the sacred time. We also have a few recommendations for supporting the WPI Community: Be sensitive to eating situations during Passover (Pesach) and consider providing a Kosher for Passover (Pesach)meal or option for those observing. Avoid scheduling important academic deadlines, events, and activities. If planning an event, provide food accommodation as requested (kosher restrictions might apply). For this years Passover , Dining Services will be providing will be providing two meals, lunch and dinner. Students are encouraged to sign up early, especially if they have any allergies or additional restrictions. A survey has been created to reflect this, which can be found at Link: Passover Meal Sign Ups Survey (surveymonkey.com) For our Hindu community, Holi (March 24 25), the festival of colors, celebrates the victory of good over evil. It also celebrates the commencement of spring season in India after the winter season. It is celebrated with utmost joy throughout India, as the festival unites Hindus of all backgrounds. People of all ages celebrate Holi by dancing and smearing each other with vivid colors. The colors represent the range of human emotions and the diversity of lifes many experiences. Holi is generally celebrated on Phalgun Purnima (last full moon in March per the lunar calendar). On the night before Holi, a bonfire is lit, and people burn their old things, symbolically forgiving people who have hurt them in the past. Holis burning fire and colorful play represent the release of stored anger and other negative attitudes by believing in Gods power and keeping faith. Typical observance of Holi includes applying color to the face and spraying others around them with dry powder and colored water. Large bonfires are built, and singing, dancing and celebrations happen all day. WPI does hold classes during Holi. Students are likely to travel home or off campus during this sacred time. We also have a few recommendations for supporting the WPI Community: Encourage stories from employees and students about the Holi festival. Remember that Holi is a funfilled festival for Hindus. Avoid scheduling important academic deadlines, events, and activities. For this years Holi , Hindu YUVA will be providing will be providing programming and celebration for the festival. For more information, please reach out to grexechinduyuvawpi.edu While there are Holy Days during DTerm, these are a few we recommend avoiding in your scheduling. Although students are not automatically excused from class for observance, they may work with their course instructors to make accommodations. FacultyStaff members may request paid time off for these observances. Supervisors are highly encouraged to support their preference to take leave for their religious observance. "As our community gathers in observance of Lent, Ramadan, Passover, and Holi  we together remember how important it is to have resources for practice and access to nutrient dense foods for our physical and spiritual wellbeing." Communication is key. The best thing community members can do is ask how individuals observing sacred practice(s) would like to be supported during this time. Minor in Gender, Sexuality  Womens Studies Minor The minor in Gender, Sexuality  Womens Studies (GSWS) offers WPI students the opportunity to interrogate interlocking systems of oppression, including racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, classism, ethnocentrism, and colonialism, and their impact on peoples lives on campus and across the world. This interdisciplinary minor combines course work from the humanities and arts, social science and policy studies, and other areas to examine issues relating to the study of gender, sexuality, and women. Value Proposition Description The GSWS minor also incorporates courses and areas of study unique to WPI's STEM interests, environment, and challenges, thus making it a unique opportunity for students of a variety of majors and academic foci. Interested students should speak with one of the GSWSaffiliated faculty in the Department of Humanities and Arts andor Department of Social Science and Policy Studies for more information. Curriculum The GSWS minor consists of six courses distributed in the following way: Two of the four core GSWS courses: At least two HUA courses, at least one of which must be at the 2000 level, chosen from the following: 23: Two SSPS courses, at least one of which must be at the 2000 level or higher, chosen from the following list: HU 1500 HU 2501 HU 2502 HU 2901 EN 1257 EN 1259 EN 2226 EN 3226 HI 2318 HI 2900 HU 1500 HU 2501 HU 2502 INTL 2110 MU 2510 MU 2632 PYRE 2716 RE 3723 ENV 2600 GOV 2320 PSY 1402 PSY 1404 PSY 1412 PSY 2407 PSY 2408 PSY 2504 PSY 3000 Other courses, including applicable experimental courses, can be substituted with the approval of a GSWS advisor. Gender, Sexuality  Women's Studies Minor Completion Form (PDF) Learn More About the Gender, Sexuality  Womens Studies Minor Required Courses Explore Minor Curriculum Contact Information for GSWS Program CoDirectors: Rebecca Moody ( rmoodywpi.edu ) Lindsay Davis ( lgdaviswpi.edu ) Find out more about the Gender, Sexuality  Women's Studies program including a complete list of GSWSaffiliated faculty. Meet the VCI Team Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Curtis and Dudley Carlson Value Creation Initiative Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Meet the VCI Team Leonard Polizzotto Executive in Residence, Provost Email: lenpwpi.edu Phone: 1 (508) 8315000 x5344 Len Polizzotto is recognized for his successful track record of business development for technology firms. A centerpiece of his work has been the study, application, and teaching of innovation best practices, including Value Factor Analysis for maximizing the value of new products. Polizzotto was Draper Laboratorys Vice President for International Programs, leading efforts to leverage Drapers capabilities to solve important new international needs in fields including bioengineering, chip fabrication, and medical consortia. Prior to joining Draper, he was Corporate Vice President for ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right view profile Arthur Heinricher Professor, Mathematical Sciences Email: heinrichwpi.edu Phone: 1 (508) 8315000 x5397 Arthur Heinricher is Interim Provost and Senior Vice President, as well as a Professor of Mathematical Sciences. Previously the Dean of Undergraduate Studies, he was responsible for ensuring the quality and effectiveness of all aspects of the undergraduate experience at WPI, providing leadership and working with the faculty to implement new undergraduate curricular and structural changes. Together with the Dean of Students, he works to ensure an appropriate balance and synergy between academics and student life. In 2012, Heinricher led the universitys selfstudy working with faculty and ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right view profile Debora Jackson Dean of WPI Business School, The Business School Email: djackson2wpi.edu Phone: 1 (508) 8315000 x5022 Biography of Rev. Debora Jackson, DMin, MDiv, ME, MS, BS The Reverend Dr. Debora Jackson is the Harry G. Stoddard Professor of Management and Dean of the Business School at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, a premiere STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) based institution recognized for projectbased education that integrates the theory and practice of management. In response to changing industry needs, Dr. Jackson seeks to promote research, collaboration, and partnerships that understand broader societal needs and recast the vision for business education in ways that ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right view profile Doug Petkie Professor and Department Head, Physics Email: dtpetkiewpi.edu Phone: 1 (508) 8315000 x5420 I am delighted to collaborate with students and colleagues to enhance WPI's global impact. WPI offers a vibrant and dynamic environment that emphasizes experiential learning and interdisciplinary research, with nearpeer mentorship spanning the undergraduate and graduate programs with external stakeholders. The unique balance between theory and practice, along with the shared passion for the WPI Plan and the ProjectBased Curriculum, make this institution exceptional. Here, degrees are earned through project accomplishments rather than traditional coursework.I greatly enjoy balancing my roles ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right view profile Ellen Piccioli Director, Manufacturing Innovation, Vice Provost for Research Email: egpiccioliwpi.edu Phone: 1 (508) 8315000 x4947 Ellen Grant Piccioli is directing the engagement and expansion of WPIs Manufacturing USA multidisciplinary, multiinstitutional and multicenter collaborative programs, and the development of new initiatives in the area of manufacturing innovation and other industry research areas of interest. Prior to WPI, Ellen consulted in the MIT Leaders for Global Operations (LGO) Program, and previously held leadership positions at Intel Corporation, HewlettPackard, Compaq, and Digital Equipment Corporation. Ellen is a member of Cornell Universitys ECE (Electrical and Computer Engineering) Advisory ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right view profile George Pins Professor, Biomedical Engineering Email: gpinswpi.edu Phone: 1 (508) 8315000 x6742 The overall objective of my research is to create bioengineered scaffolds to enhance the regeneration of damaged tissues and organs. Specifically, my laboratory uses biomimetic design strategies and novel fabrication processes to develop threedimensional constructs that emulate native tissue architecture and cellular microenvironments. We use these scaffolds to characterize the roles of extracellular matrix (ECM) cues and topographic features in modulating cellular functions, including adhesion, migration, proliferation, differentiation, and tissue remodeling. For example, we are ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right view profile Nima Rahbar White Family Distinguished Professor  Department Head, Civil, Environmental,  Architectural Engineering Email: nrahbarwpi.edu Phone: 1 (508) 8315000 x6567 My research activities in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering are in mechanics, materials, and structures. At WPI, my favorite teaching aspect is working oneonone with graduate and undergraduate students on research projects. I like to excite students curiosity toward discoveries and creative scientific advancements. In our research group, we focus on the fundamental principles that control the behavior of materials in engineering and biology at multiple scales. I am particularly interested in the bioinspired design of materials and structures. In this field, studying ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right view profile Bogdan Vernescu Vice President and Vice Provost for Research and Innovation, Vice Provost for Research Email: vernescuwpi.edu Phone: 1 (508) 8315000 x6411 Bogdan Vernescu is currently Professor of mathematical sciences and the Vice Provost for Research. His research is in applied mathematics for multiscale materials sciences, focusing on the characterization of material properties of composites, porous media, suspensions, emulsions and electrorheologicalmagnetorheological materials. He has published over 60 research papers, a monograph and a proceedings volume. He has held visiting positions at MIT, the University of Metz, University of Nancy, University of Savoie, University of Rouen, University of Sorbonne Paris Nord, University of Rome La ... Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right view profile 20242025 The information on this page is accurate as of the date of publication. However, all future academic calendars are reviewed annually, published for planning purposes, and are subject to change. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Academic Calendars Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up 20242025 Calendar View 202425 Academic Calendar (PDF) 2024  2025 FALL  SPRING  SUMMER Fall 2024 August 22 First day of ATerm First day of Fall Semester 28 Last day of AddDrop for ATerm (no registration fee to add) September 2 Labor Day; No Classes 5 Follow Monday schedule Last day of AddDrop for ATerm (with registration fee to add) Last day of AddDrop for Fall Semester CDR  ETD Deadline for Summer 2024 Projects 26 Last day to withdraw from ATerm courses (graduate students only) 27 Wellness Day ; No Classes October 11 Last day of ATerm Last day to withdraw from 10week courses (graduate students only) 16 A term grades due by 4:30 pm 21 First day of BTerm 25 Last day of AddDrop for BTerm (no registration fee to add) November 1 Last day of AddDrop for BTerm (with registration fee to add) CDR Deadline for ATerm Projects 5 Wellness Day ; No Classes 8 Last day to withdraw from Fall Semester courses (graduate students only) 25 Last day to withdraw from BTerm courses (graduate students only) December 2 Last day to Withdrawtake Leave of Absence for Fall Semester 9 Reading Day 13 Last Day of BTerm Last Day of Fall Semester CDR  ETD Deadline for December 2024 Graduation candidates 18 Grades due by 3 pm Spring 2025 January 15 First Day of CTerm First Day of Spring Semester Follow Monday schedule 20 Martin Luther King, Jr. Day; No Classes 22 Last day of AddDrop for CTerm (no registration fee to add) 29 Last day of AddDrop for CTerm (with registration fee to add) Last day of AddDrop for Spring Semester courses CDR  ETD Deadline for BTermFall Semester Projects February 14 Wellness Day ; No Classes 20 Last day to withdraw from CTerm courses (graduate students only) 27 Academic Advising Day; No Classes March 7 Last day of CTerm Last day to withdraw from 10week courses (graduate students only) 12 CTerm grades due by 4:30pm 17 First day of DTerm 21 Last day of AddDrop for DTerm (no registration fee to add) 28 Last day of AddDrop for DTerm (with registration fee to add) CDR Deadline for CTerm Projects 31 Wellness Day ; No Classes April 1 Follow Monday schedule 7 Last day to withdraw from Spring Semester courses (graduate students only) 21 Patriots Day; No Classes 22 Last day to Withdrawtake Leave of Absence for Spring Semester Last day to withdraw from CTerm courses (graduate students only) 25 Undergraduate Research Projects Showcase; No Classes May 1 Deadline for CDRs  ETDs for all May 2025 graduating students 7 Last day of DTerm Last day of Spring Semester Follow Friday schedule 10 HUA CDRs due at 12 pm for all May 2025 graduating students DTerm  Spring Semester grades due by 4:30 pm 15 Graduate Commencement 16 Undergraduate Commencement Summer 2025 May 22 Summer Session I and Full Summer courses begin (online and oncampus) 27 No classes (Memorial Day) 29 Last day of adddrop for Summer Session I June 5 Last day of adddrop for Full Summer CDR  ETD Deadline for DTermSpring Semester Projects 12 Last day to withdraw from a Summer Session I course (graduate and nondegree students only) 19 No classes (Juneteenth) 27 Follow Monday schedule Last day of Summer Session I July 2 Summer Session I grades due at 4 pm 7 Summer Session II begins 11 Last day to adddrop for Summer Session II 18 Last day to withdraw from a Full Summer course (graduate and nondegree students only) 25 Last day to withdraw from a Summer Session II course (graduate and nondegree students only) August 8 Last day of Summer Session II and Full Summer Deadline for CDRs  ETDs for all August 2025 graduation candidates 13 Summer Session II and Full Summer grades due at 4 pm Manufacturing Engineering Graduate Certificate Graduate Certificate Request Information Apply WPIs Online Manufacturing Engineering Certificate focuses on advancing engineering designs and processes to bring ideas into practical, costeffective use in safer, greener and more sustainable approaches. This certificate in manufacturing will equip students with the knowledge to advance manufacturing bestpractices. Learn how to materials are processed in a sustainable world to help you become more efficient in maintaining and meeting industry standards. Gain the knowledge and skills needed to push the boundaries of analysis, design, manufacturing and business as you customize a program that leverages your professional expertise and meets your career and lifestyle goals. Offered 100 online, WPI graduate certificates are a convenient way to advance your skills in manufacturing without pressing pause on your career. Youll earn the same certificate as students on campus, from the comfort of your home or office. Work closely with faculty advisors to develop a customized plan of study. Also offered online: Online Master's in Manufacturing Engineering Take a Course Application Requirements OnDemand Webinar Manufacturing Engineering Info Session View our ondemand webinar to be introduced to WPI's online graduate programs in Manufacturing Engineering. Get an overview of program logistics, what online learning looks like, the application process, and more! Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right VIEW NOW WEBINARS Graduate Studies Series. Team members from Graduate  Professional Studies host quick and convenient webinars designed to highlight popular topics when starting grad school. Take a deep dive into specific areas of interest such as how to secure funding, how to ace your application, an overview of student services, and more! Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right VIEW PAST WEBINARS ON DEMAND Refer a Friend Do you have a friend, colleague, or family member who might be interested in a WPI graduate program? Click below to tell them about our programs. REFER A FRIEND Admissions Qualifications for Manufacturing Engineering Certificate Online Bachelors degree in science, engineering, or management, preferably in such fields as computer scienceengineering, electricalcontrol engineering, industrial engineering, environmental engineering, manufacturing engineering, materials science and engineering, mechanical engineering, or management with a minimum GPA of 3.0 or higher. For specific application requirements, visit application requirements page. If you do not have a bachelor's degree, please view our list of undergraduate programs . Program Requirements for Manufacturing Engineering Certificate Online Student are required to complete a minimum of 12 credits for the Manufacturing Engineering Certificate Online. Courses must be approved by the students advisor and the Director of Manufacturing Engineering or the Manufacturing Engineering Graduate Committee. Courses Subject to change based on availability. View academic start dates for Online Manufacturing Engineering View course listings and descriptions for online programs on our MS in Manufacturing Engineering page. Graduate Student Resources Meet the Admissions Team From onsite recruiting events to live and ondemand webinars, learn more and stay connected with WPIs Graduate  Professional Studies. Graduate News and Events Manufacturing Engineering Department PREVIOUS ANNOUNCEMENT Dean Jean King to Join National Academies Panel on Women in Science, Engineering, and Medicine NEXT ANNOUNCEMENT Marketing Resources  Toolkit for Faculty and Staff Available WPI Rockets to Top 25 in Ranking of US Online MBA Programs Department(s): The Business School January 14, 2025 Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) ranked No. 24 in PoetsQuants Best Online MBA Programs in the U.S. for 2025. The university also earned the title of this years biggest climber, ranking 17 spots higher than it did last year. What factors contributed to the sharp rise of WPIs online MBA ranking? Prescient programming. The WPI Business School is committed to anticipating future workforce demands. For example, it has been offering AI coursesincluding Business Applications in Machine Learning (ML) and Advanced Prescriptive Analysis: From Data to Impactfor years, long before ChatGPT became a household name. Customizable curriculum. The online MBA at WPI teaches not only the core principles of business, but also how to effectively lead at the intersection of business, technology, and people. The programs unique impact comes from students ability to choose from 18 specializations or create their own program to fit their career goals. Areas of focus range across analytics, finance, marketing, operations, and more. Targeted technology. The online MBA, like all WPI graduate degrees, is programmed with a technology focus since thats where the future of work is headed. Students learn how to leverage the latest tech tools to achieve business objectives, making it a destination for engineers, scientists, changemakers, and any professionals who want to become business leaders in techoriented fields. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote The Business School at WPI has been ahead of the curve for a long time in preparing students for the future of work, especially with regards to AI, FinTech, and digital transformation. Graduates of our online MBA program are also acutely aware of the competitive advantage they now have as they advance in their careers. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Debora Jackson Harry G. Stoddard Professor of Management Dean of The WPI Business School How were the online MBA rankings determined? In contrast with other national rankings that are based on peer reviews and outside perceptions, the PoetsQuants ranking is centered on data from sources that know each program best: the schools themselves and recent graduates. Each schools score is a sum of three equally weighted categories: Admissions standards. Data is reported by the schools via the PoetsQuants institutional survey. Academic experience. Data is collected via an alumni survey of the most recent graduating class and combined with data from the previous two classes. Career outcomes. Data is collected via an alumni survey of the most recent graduating class and combined with data from the previous two classes. View the full methodology behind the rankings. In addition to the online MBA, WPI now offers a STEMdesignated MBA in Analytics an ideal option for professionals who want to steer datadriven decisions and international students on F1 visas. This program now also features a concentration in artificial intelligence, enabling students to gain the necessary technological and business foundations to formulate AI strategy and policy, design and implement AIbased business solutions and applications, and use AI ethically and responsibly. Explore Your Future What could your career look like with an MBA from WPI? Find My Specialization Policies Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Financial Aid Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Policies Institutional financial aid retention policy WPI Award Conditions and Notes Document 20232024 Award Conditions and Notes (304.05 KB) Document 20242025 Award Conditions and Notes (146.31 KB) Document 20252026 Award Conditions and Notes (156.08 KB) AID RETENTIONPROGRESS TOWARD A DEGREE All full time students are expected to register and enroll in the equivalent of 36 credits (12 classes) each academic year. A student must pass a minimum of 24 academic credits each academic year (A through D term) to keep the same level of WPI institutional funding for the following academic year. AP courses, transfer credit, incomplete grades or extensions are not counted in the number of credits passed. The student is responsible for resolving any incomplete grades with the faculty member assigning the grade. If a student does not meet the minimum number of academic credits required in an academic year (AD term), their WPI merit based scholarships will be reviewed and a percentage of their merit scholarship may be reduced based on the number of courses they did not pass. Reductions to WPI meritbased scholarships begin at having passed only 21 credits, which results in a 5 decrease in funding. WPI meritbased scholarships will continue to be reduced by 5 for every 3 credits not passed. There are exceptions for students on an approved reduced course load, participating in a CoOp experience, or returning from a Leave of Absence, for example. Federal andor State Financial Aid For retention of federal andor state financial aid funding, please refer to the Federal SAP section below. WPI Financial Need based ScholarshipsGrants All full time students are expected to register and enroll in twelve 36 credits per academic year  . Students must pass a minimum of 24 academic credits to keep the same level of funding the following year. Please note that AP courses, transfer credit, incompletes or extensions cannot be counted in the number of credits passed. The student is responsible for resolving any incomplete grades with the faculty member assigning the grade. All needbased scholarship awards administered by WPI are available as credits against charges incurred during the normal academic year (terms A through D): half for terms A and B and half for terms C and D. Scholarships, other than global scholarships, may not be used as credit against charges during term E (summer session). In addition to conditions itemized above, scholarships are available for the shorter of two periods: sixteen terms of enrollment or until the end of the billing period in which your undergraduate degree is completed. Students must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 credits per semester to be eligible for WPI needbased scholarships and grants (there are exceptions for participation in a CoOp experience or students returning from a leave of absence). No combination of WPI scholarship awards may exceed tuition. WPI Merit based ScholarshipsGrants WPI merit scholarships will not increase or decrease based on changes to a students financial need. However, a students merit scholarship will decrease or be eliminated if a student does not pass a minimum of 24 academic credits per year. If this occurs, a student must first appeal to the Office of Financial Aid. The appeal should include an academic plan, and will be reviewed prior to reinstatement of scholarshipsgrants. All WPI meritbased scholarship awards administered by WPI are available as credits against charges incurred during the normal academic year (terms A through D): half for terms A and B and half for terms C and D. Scholarships may not be used as credit against charges during term E (summer session). In addition to conditions itemized above, scholarships are available for the shorter of two periods: sixteen terms of enrollment or until the end of the billing period in which your undergraduate degree is completed. Students must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 credits per semester to be eligible for WPI merit scholarship aid (there are exceptions for participation in a CoOP experience or students returning from a leave of absence). No combination of WPI scholarship awards may exceed tuition. Students awarded WPI Merit based funds and then withdraw from WPI, (officially or unofficially, see Registrar's website for withdrawal and leave policies) will NOT be eligible to receive the merit funds if they are readmitted to WPI more than 1 year after their date of last enrollment at WPI. Students taking a leave of absence will NOT be eligible to receive the merit funds if they do not return to WPI within maximum time allotted by the leave of absence (which may be more than a year). If your situation extends beyond the timelines listed above please contact our office for further discussion. Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Financial Aid Appeals  Federal  Institutional If a student is not on academic probation or suspension, but has lost a portion of their merit scholarship(s), they may petition to receive their WPI funding by completing the Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Financial Aid Appeal Form. Academic Probation If a student is placed on Academic Probation by the WPI Registrars Office, they may petition to receive their WPI funding by completing the Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Financial Aid Appeal Form and submitting it by the deadlines listed on the form. Academic Suspension If a student is placed on Suspension by the WPI Registrars Office, they must first appeal to the University Registrar and follow the appropriate suspension guidelines. If a student is allowed to return to WPI, they may petition to receive their WPI funding by completing the Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Financial Aid Appeal Form and submitting it by the deadlines listed on the form. If a student is placed on Academic Probation or Suspension by the WPI Registrar's Office, they are no longer eligible for any WPI funding, including meritbased or needbased scholarships or WPI loans. See the Financial Aid FAQ page for information about WPIs no record (NR) option. E Term  Summer If a student earns additional credits during E Term, which may improve their Federal SAP, please email finaidwpi.edu at the end of E Term to alert the office. If a student NRs additional courses during E Term, and if the student has Title IV (federal) funding, they may be subject to a loss of federal funding and will need to submit an appeal to finaidwpi.edu . This policy is separate from the Universitys academic standing policy. That policy is found here. This policy is separate from the Federal SAP Policy that WPI must uphold. Any questions? Please email finaidwpi.edu or call 5088315469. Withdrawal or Leave of Absence There are many reasons why a student may need or wish to take time away from WPI. There may be personal or medical issues interfering with their academics; opportunities for professional experience; family or community commitments; or the desire to just take a break. Prior to making this decision, we advise you to review the Registrars Withdrawal or Leave of Absence page to learn about the types of leaves and the steps for this process  including required forms. Students should inform themselves about the consequences to the following, if applicable: Financial Aid Visa Status Housing Billing , including potential tuition adjustments Health insurance: If insured by student health insurance please check for coverage options. Undergraduate students schedule an appointment with Academic Advising The recalculation of each students financial aid package will be unique and is dependent on many factors (e.g., time of withdrawal, charges incurred, and financial aid package components). Leaving WPI because of an approved official or unofficial withdrawal, leave of absence or suspension may have an impact on your financial aid package. Early notification to the WPI Registrars Office will help ensure that your financial aid is appropriately recalculated, and that any required adjustments are made to your student account as soon as possible. No classes passed in a term: If a student who receives federal financial aid fails to earn a passing grade in at least one course during a term (and does not officially withdraw from the institution), federal regulations require WPI to assume that the student has unofficially withdrawn from the institution. WPI must recalculate the students federal aid eligibility for the semester unless the student can provide documentation from their professors that they completed the term but simply failed to earn a passing grade. Adjustment to Charges (Tuition  Fees, Room  Board) Upon Withdrawal Leave of Absence If a student takes an officialapproved withdrawal, leave of absence, or is suspended during the semester, tuition, fees, room, and board charges will be prorated per WPIs Withdrawal and Refund Policy . The following items will not be reduced: health insurance fees, health and wellness fee, student life fees, new student fee and other general student fees. Adjustment to Financial Aid Upon Withdrawal  Leave of Absence The recalculation of each students financial aid package will be unique and is dependent on many factors (e.g., time of withdrawal, charges incurred, and financial aid package components). Leaving WPI because of an officialapproved withdrawal, leave of absence or suspension may have an impact on your financial aid package. Early notification to the WPI Registrars Office will help ensure that your financial aid is appropriately recalculated, and that any required adjustments are made to your student account as soon as possible. Leave of absence refers to the WPI leave of absence, not federal. Adjustment to Charges (Tuition  Fees; Room  Board) If a student takes an officialapproved withdrawal, leave of absence, or is suspended during the semester, tuition, fees, room, and board charges will be prorated per WPIs Withdrawal and Refund Policy . The following items will not be reduced: health insurance fees, health and wellness fee, student life fees, new student fee and other general student fees. Adjustment to Financial Aid In general, an officialapproved withdrawal, leave of absence, or suspension will result in a reduction to a students financial aid package (including WPI, federal andor state funding): Federal Funds: If federal funds are required to be returned to the Federal Department of Education, they will be returned before any other forms of aid and in the following order per federal guidelines: Unsubsidized Federal Direct Loan, Subsidized Federal Direct Loan, Federal PLUS Loan, Federal Pell Grant, Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant, and Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grants. Institutional Financial Aid: All WPI institutional financial aid (e.g., WPI grants, scholarships, and institutional loans) will be prorated based on the tuition refund schedule for withdrawal during a semester . State Funding: State funding regulations vary, and any adjustments will be performed in accordance with the specific requirements of the sponsoring state. The student will receive notification from the Office of Financial Aid when the adjustments to their charges and financial aid are complete. Adjustment to Financial Aid Based on Early Degree Completion (Undergraduate Students Only) Early Degree Completion is only available to Undergraduate Students. Undergraduate students completing 100 of WPI graduation requirements by the end of Aterm or Cterm will be eligible for a 50 adjustment of tuition for the semester of completion. Eligible students must complete the Undergraduate Application for Early Degree Completion form available on the Registrars Office website and submit it by the end of Bterm (for Cterm completion) or Dterm (for Aterm completion). Please ensure you have read and fully understand the policies set forth in that form and discuss any questions with the appropriate office(s) (Registrar, Bursar, Housing  Residential Experience, or Financial Aid) before submitting the form. Qualified students receiving financial aid from WPI will retain 50 of any WPI scholarships (merit and need based), and their loan eligibility will be reviewed on an individual basis. Federal and State Grants that require full time enrollment (minimum of 12 credits per semester) may also be impacted by an early completion. Aid adjustments may not be fully complete until after the AddDrop period for A or C terms as some Federal and State aid requires confirmation of enrollment before aid can be adjusted. Adjustments after AddDrop may result in a balance due for the semester depending on the types of adjustments that need to be made. Federal SAP  Undergraduate Students The Higher Education Act of 1965 The Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended by Congress, mandates that institutions of higher education monitor the academic progress of students who receive federal financial aid. Recipients of both federal (Title IV) and state financial aid funds must maintain Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) toward their degrees in order to remain eligible for financial aid assistance. Federal Financial Aid SAP is defined both qualitatively and quantitatively. Federal regulations state that the SAP standards for students receiving Title IV aid must be the same as or more strict than the schools standards for a student enrolled in the same educational program who is not receiving Title IV aid. WPIs Academic SAP standards differ from its Federal Financial Aid SAP standards. For more information on WPIs Academic SAP policies, please visit the WPI Registrar's Office page . WPI has established the following minimum standards to be eligible for and continue to receive federal and state financial aid. This policy reflects the changes to federal regulations that are effective as of July 1, 2011. In order to assist the student, parents, and the academic advisor in determining whether a student is making federal financial aid satisfactory academic progress, WPI has adopted the following guidelines: Federal Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) will be reviewed at the end of the academic year (term D) and is based on the student meeting qualitative and quantitative criteria. Students need to meet all three criteria listed below in order to maintain Federal Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) 1) Qualitative Requirement  maintain a 2.0 cumulative GPA Students must maintain a 2.0 minimum cumulative GPA, which will be reviewed at the end of each academic year. NR grades are not included in the GPA 2). Quantitative Requirement   credits earned vs.  credits attempted Students must earn a cumulative minimum of 66.67 of the cumulative credits they attempt at the end of each academic year (term D). 3). Quantitative Requirement  150 maximum timeframe Students must complete their degree program within a 150 of the published program length. For federal aid purposes, students who do not attain their WPI Bachelor's Degree after 202.50 credits (150 x 135 credits) will no longer be eligible to apply for federal financial aid funding. Treatment of course work Withdrawals, NR grades, incomplete courses, and transfer course work are not counted towards the qualitative portion of the SAP review. Quantitative  A grade of A, B, C, and SP, transfer coursework, courses taken during the summer term, and repeated courses (only allowed once) are counted towards classes passed (earned). Withdrawals, NR grades, incomplete courses, repeated courses, course taken during the WPI summer term, and transfer course work are counted towards attempted hours in the Federal Financial Aid SAP review Transfer Credits Courses transferred to WPI are counted as both passed (credits earned) and attempted classes when measuring pace (quantitative measure). These classes are not counted as part of the qualitative SAP measure Counted in next evaluation period following receipt and review of transcript Admitted transfers are considered SAP eligible initially Remedial Coursework WPI does not accept remedial transfer credit hours and does not include remedial coursework in  classes passed. Incomplete Grades Incomplete grades will be considered as an NR grade when calculating the GPA for qualitative component of the SAP and as attempted classes when calculating the Pace component of Federal Financial Aid SAP. Ifwhen incomplete grades are assigned a grade of A, B, C, or SP, the SAP measures will be adjusted for the term in which the class was taken. It is the students responsibility to notify the WPI Office of Financial Aid of any grade change after the review period. Repeating Classes (does not apply to Graduate students) Students may repeat a passed course only one time to improve the grade. This repeated class will be included in the Federal Financial Aid SAP review. A passed course that has been taken more than once to improve the grade will not count in the enrollment status for federal financial aid purposes and will not be included in the Federal Financial Aid SAP review. Dropped Classes After the adddrop period has ended for each term, any class in which a student no longer attends (and receives an NR grade) will be counted as attempted classes in determining Federal Financial Aid SAP. Withdrawing From the University (officially and unofficially) Federal Financial Aid SAP regulations do not recognize any provision for academic amnesty. All academic course work must be included in determining Federal Financial Aid SAP taken anytime a student is enrolled at WPI. When a student officially or unofficially withdraws from WPI, all classes showing as attempted will be included in the Federal Financial Aid SAP review. Federal Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) At the end of the academic year (end of term D), if Financial Aid SAP standards have been met, students will be eligible to apply for financial aid funds for the upcoming academic year. Financial Aid Suspension At the end of the academic year (end of term D), if Federal Financial Aid SAP standards have not been met, students will be sent notification by the WPI Office of Financial Aid informing them they have been placed on Federal Financial Aid Suspension due to not meeting Federal Financial Aid SAP standards. The notification will include information concerning the loss of federal and state financial aid for the upcoming enrollment period (academic year) due to failure to meet the Federal Financial Aid SAP minimum standards as well as explain the financial aid appeal process. Federal Financial Aid Appeal If the student is placed on Federal Financial Aid Suspension, an appeal process is available for those students who had a personal injury or illness, death of a relative, or believe they had other mitigating circumstances that affected their ability to meet Federal Financial Aid SAP standards. Students can obtain the SAP Financial Aid Appeal Form by visiting the WPI Office of Financial Aid or downloading the form from the WPI Office of Financial Aid Forms page. Appeal process Step One: Students who choose to follow the appeal process must: Submit SAP Financial Aid Appeal Form to the WPI Financial Aid Appeal Committee (mail to WPI Office of Financial Aid) by the stated deadline date Student must state why he or she was placed on Federal Financial Aid Suspension (i.e. failed to meet Federal Financial Aid SAP requirements). Student must state what has changed so that he or she will improve hisher academic performance (i.e. meet Federal Financial Aid SAP at the next review). Step Two: WPI Financial Aid Appeal Committee will: Review the SAP Financial Aid Appeal Form Send results of appeal decision to the student Approved appeals include: Approval and terms of reinstatement of federal financial aid eligibility Requirement to meet Federal Financial Aid SAP in next enrollment period (semester) or requirement to follow an academic plan over an extended period of time Consequences for not meeting terms of approval Approved appeals will result in federal financial aid being awarded for the enrollment period Denied appeals include: Reasons for denial What the student must do to meet Federal Financial Aid SAP Denied appeals will not be awarded federal financial aid until Federal Financial Aid SAP is met Step Three: Students must continue to meet terms, as established, until Federal Financial Aid SAP is met in order to continue receiving federal financial aid on a probationary basis. Once Federal Financial Aid SAP is met, students are no longer considered to be on Federal Financial Aid Probation. Failure to maintain Federal Financial Aid SAP in a subsequent semester will result in the student being placed on Federal Financial Aid Suspension for the upcoming enrollment period (semester). The U.S. Higher Education Act require universities participating in federally funded financial aid programs to make certain information about the institution is available to current and prospective students and other interested parties. This page aggregates links to a wide range of such information available online from a variety of sources on campus. This list is still a work in progress and links will be edited and updated as information becomes available. Federal Financial Aid Probation Students who have their SAP Financial Aid Appeal approved are placed on Federal Financial Aid Probation and may apply for federal financial aid funding for the semester in which they are on Federal Financial Aid Probation. Continuation of federal financial aid while on Financial Aid Probation is contingent on the student successfully meeting Federal Financial Aid SAP standards andor an academic plan of action provided with the approved appeal. Federal SAP  Graduate Students Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy for Graduate Students Federal regulations require students who are receiving financial aid to make deliberate and measurable progress toward your degree in order to continue to receive financial aid. This requirement is referred to as Satisfactory Academic Progress or SAP. WPI will monitor your academic progress to ensure that you maintain a minimum cumulative GPA and make steady progress toward degree completion. This policy applies to federal and state aid. Students who do not meet the SAP requirements may lose their financial aid eligibility. If extenuating circumstances led to your noncompliance, you may submit an appeal to the Office of Financial Aid. Only students with a current year FAFSA on file will be evaluated. If you do not have a current FAFSA on file, you will not be evaluated until a FAFSA is received for the upcoming academic year. The SAP review is based on the entire academic record, even if you did not receive financial aid for previous semesters of enrollment. Qualitative and Quantitative Standards WPI measures your academic performance, in relation to financial aid, based on three standards: grade point average (GPA), pace, and maximum timeframe. Refer to the WPI Registrars page for the schools academic standing definitions and policies. To be eligible for financial aid, Graduate students must comply with the following requirements: Cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) Maintain a 3.0 minimum cumulative grade point average. In the event that your program of study requires a higher GPA, it will supersede the minimum in this policy Completion Rate (Pace) Students must earn a cumulative minimum of 66.67 of the cumulative credits they attempt at the end of each academic year (term D). Maximum Time Frame Earn your degree within the timeframe and maximum credits established in the Academic Regulations and Policies as specified in the graduate catalogue. Evaluations and Notifications Satisfactory academic progress is evaluated annually in June. Students who fail to meet the minimum SAP standards will be notified electronically via your WPI email account. The SAP policy applies to financial aid eligibility; it does not impact registration or academic standing . It is separate from the academic standard required by the University for continued enrollment. Appeal Process Students not meeting the minimum SAP requirements have the right to petition the Satisfactory Academic Progress Appeals Committee to have their aid reinstated when extenuating circumstances exist. Circumstances which are considered extenuating are those which are unusual or unforeseen at the beginning of the enrollment period such as death of a relative, injury, illness, family or financial difficulties. An appeal may not be based upon the need for assistance or lack of knowledge that assistance was in jeopardy. The committee will review the appeal and notify the student of their decision in writing at your WPI email account. Graduate student SAP Appeal Form Appeals must be in writing using the form above and include an explanation of why you were unable to meet the SAP requirements, and the circumstances that have changed which would allow you to make SAP at the next evaluation. You may include supporting documents. You must also meet with your academic advisor to create an academic plan. This plan must demonstrate that, if followed, you will be meeting SAP standards at the next evaluation or by a specified point in time. This plan must be presented with your appeal letter. Written appeals must be filed within 30 days of notification or prior to the last day of adddrop for the semester in which aid is desired, whichever comes first. Appeal documentation can be scanned and emailed to finaidwpi.edu . Students should not assume that a SAP appeal will be approved and must accept responsibility for paying tuition and fees if the appeal is denied. SAP Appeals Committee decisions are final and may not be appealed to another source. Students may submit one appeal. All information is subject to change based on changes to federal law, regulation, or university policy and procedure. If changes are made, students must abide by the new policy. Treatment of Title IV Aid When a Student Withdraws Summary of the Requirements of 34 CFR 668.22 The law specifies how your school must determine the amount of Title IV program assistance that you earn if you withdraw from school. The Title IV programs that are covered by this law are Federal Pell Grants, Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grants, TEACH Grants, Direct Loans, Direct PLUS Loans, and Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (FSEOGs). Though your aid is posted to your account at the start of each period, you earn the funds as you complete the period. If you withdraw during your payment period or period of enrollment (your school can define these for you and tell you which one applies to you), the amount of Title IV program assistance that you have earned up to that point is determined by a specific formula. If you received (or your school or parent received on your behalf) less assistance than the amount that you earned, you may be able to receive those additional funds. If you received more assistance than you earned, the excess funds must be returned by the school andor you. The amount of assistance that you have earned is determined on a pro rata basis. For example, if you completed 30 of your payment period or period of enrollment, you earn 30 of the assistance you were originally scheduled to receive. Once you have completed more than 60 of the payment period or period of enrollment, you earn all the assistance that you were scheduled to receive for that period. If you did not receive all of the funds that you earned, you may be due a postwithdrawal disbursement. If your postwithdrawal disbursement includes loan funds, your school must get your permission before it can disburse them. You may choose to decline some or all of the loan funds so that you dont incur additional debt. Your school may automatically use all or a portion of your postwithdrawal disbursement of grant funds for tuition, fees, and room and board charges (as contracted with the school). The school needs your permission to use the postwithdrawal grant disbursement for all other institutional charges. If you do not give your permission (some schools ask for this when you enroll), you will be offered the funds. However, it may be in your best interest to allow the school to keep the funds to reduce your debt at the school. There are some Title IV funds that you were scheduled to receive that cannot be disbursed to you once you withdraw because of other eligibility requirements. For example, if you are a firsttime, firstyear undergraduate student and you have not completed the first 30 days of your program before you withdraw, you will not receive any Direct Loan funds that you would have received had you remained enrolled past the 30th day. If you receive (or your school or parent receive on your behalf) excess Title IV program funds that must be returned, your school must return a portion of the excess equal to the lesser of 1) your institutional charges multiplied by the unearned percentage of your funds, or 2) the entire amount of excess funds. The school must return this amount even if it didnt keep this amount of your Title IV program funds. If your school is not required to return all of the excess funds, you must return the remaining amount. For any loan funds that you must return, you (or your parent for a Direct PLUS Loan) repay in accordance with the terms of the promissory note. That is, you make scheduled payments to the holder of the loan over a period of time. Any amount of unearned grant funds that you must return is called an overpayment. The maximum amount of a grant overpayment that you must repay is half of the grant funds you received or were scheduled to receive. You do not have to repay a grant overpayment if the original amount of the overpayment is 50 or less. You must make arrangements with your school or the Department of Education to return the unearned grant funds. The requirements for Title IV program funds when you withdraw are separate from any refund policy that your school may have. Therefore, you may still owe funds to the school to cover unpaid institutional charges. Your school may also charge you for any Title IV program funds that the school was required to return. If you dont already know your schools refund policy, you should ask your school for a copy. Your school can also provide you with the requirements and procedures for officially withdrawing from school. If you have questions about your Title IV program funds, you can call the Federal Student Aid Information Center at 18004FEDAID (18004333243). TTY users may call 18007308913. Information is also available on Student Aid on the Web at . Consumer Information Per federal regulations set forth by the Higher Education Act of 1965 (amended in 2008), educational institutions are required to disclose specific consumer information about the school and the availability of student financial aid to prospective and continuing students. The Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 (H.R. 4137), which was signed into law on August 14, 2008, mandates that visitors be provided with additional information in a variety of formats. WPI's consumer information is available in the Consumer Information section of our University Analytics Office's website . Degree in Environmental Engineering Bachelor of Science Enroll Visit Request Information The interdisciplinary nature of the degree in environmental engineering at WPI offers you the flexibility to tailor your degree to your interests and career goals with the perfect blend of courses from civil and chemical engineering. Value Proposition Description Whether your interests lie in sustainability, keeping water supplies safe, designing processes to handle industrial waste and reduce chemical toxicity, or remediating contaminated sites, the breadth of knowledge covered in the Environmental Engineering BS gives you the foundation to forge your own path in this indemand field. The WPI Way If youre interested in a e nvironmental engineering degree at WPI, discover our awardwinning faculty, cuttingedge research, and worldchanging projects, along with the inspiring accomplishments of our alumni. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Environmental Engineering Department UNDERGRADUATE CATALOG Curriculum As an undergrad earning a degree in environmental engineering, youll work closely with pioneering faculty in environmental, civil, chemical, and mechanical engineering. Youll learn how you can make a difference for future generations by protecting public health and preserving the environment, with courses like Water Treatment, Hydraulics, Hazardous and Industrial Waste Management, Kinetics and Reactor Design, Soil Mechanics, and Land Use Development and Controls. You may also pursue your bachelors and masters degrees concurrently with the Environmental Engineering BSMS program . Complementary Minors: Biology Business Chemistry Entrepreneurship Environmental and Sustainability Studies International and Global Studies Projectbased Learning Handson, projectbased learning is the cornerstone of the WPI experience, and a big reason why youll stand out to employers. As a e nvironmental engineering major, your options might include supporting faculty research, conducting projects offcampus in the U.S. or abroad, and finding your niche. More Value Whether its realworld work experience through a coop or internship , accelerating your path with a BSMS program , or even finding opportunities to integrate coursework with extracurricular interests, personalizing your education at WPI pays off. See how WPI changes your path. Jumpstart Your Career Career Development Center Explore WPIs Career Outlook for Environmental Engineering Whether you decide to pursue a degree in environmental engineering or the complementary field of civil engineering , youll be at the forefront of developing solutions to environmental problems while examining where our natural world and urban environment meet. Our career outlooks for environmental engineering and civil engineering have more information on average starting salaries, sample job titles, lists of companies that have hired WPI graduates, and more. Earn a Degree in Environmental Sustainability WPIs handson degree in environmental sustainability will introduce you to the impact of complex environmental problems and changes that were created at the hands of humans. Youll also have the opportunity to work alongside faculty, peers, and community members in solving some of the most pressing problems of our time. Consider a Degree in Chemical Engineering With a degree in chemical engineering from WPI, youll have the opportunity to explore your chosen areas of interesteverything from biotechnology, the environment, and pharmaceuticals to energy, materials, and safetywhile gaining the knowledge and problemsolving skills needed to make the world a better place. Looking to take your education further? Consider a certificate. If youre interested in a specialized area of environmental engineering focusing on the worlds most crucial natural resource, WPI offers both graduate and advanced certificates in Water Quality Systems and Water Resources . Both are invaluable in enhancing your knowledge base and increasing your marketability in an everadapting workforce. The Civil, Environmental  Architectural Engineering Department is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. Environmental Engineering Program Affiliations Civil, Environmental  Architectural Engineering Chemical Engineering Similar Majors Degree in Chemical Engineering Degree in Civil Engineering Degree in Environmental  Sustainability Studies International Students Helping to Make College a Reality for Students Around the World Students applying for financial aid must submit the CSS Profile (WPI school code 3969) along with their application for admission by the admissions application deadline . WPI offers limited financial assistance to international (nonimmigrant) students. We cannot, however, guarantee meeting applicants' full financial need. Financial assistance is offered to international students who enter as firstyear students. Beginning with students admitted for fall 2024, assistance will also be available to international transfer students. Financial assistance should be considered secondary to family, government, and other sponsor support for the student's studies. All international applicants who are not applying for financial aid should complete and submit WPIs Certification of Finances Form ( www.wpi.educof ) demonstrating their ability to pay the full cost of attendance. This form is required only for students accepted to the university and who will enroll. Students applying for financial aid should submit only the CSS Profile at the time of application. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Applying for Aid Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up International Students How do I apply? Students applying for financial aid must submit the CSS Profile with their application for admission. International students not applying for financial aid should submit the Certification of Finances Form ( www.wpi.educof ) documenting their ability to pay the full cost of attendance. Please visit the Office of Financial Aid page about financing your education as an international student. Returning International Students do not need to reapply for financial aid each year. For additional questions, please contact intladmissionswpi.edu . MeritBased Academic Scholarships WPI offers competitive academic meritbased scholarships to firstyear and transfer applicants based on academic performance, leadership experiences, extracurricular involvement, and community service. IB diploma graduates with a diploma score of 40 or greater admitted to WPI as a firstyear student are guaranteed an academic meritbased scholarship worth a minimum of 25,000. All applicants for admission are automatically considered for merit scholarships. No additional applications are required. Additional information is available on WPIs meritbased scholarships. International NeedBased Grants In addition to meritbased scholarships, WPI offers a limited number of needbased grants to international students. Because WPI has limited funds available, only a portion of the admitted international students are awarded an International Grant each year. The awards vary in amount but typically range from 5,000 to 25,000. These awards are renewed each year provided the student remains in good academic standing. WPI does not guarantee to meet applicants' full financial need. International grants are based upon financial need, the student's academic profile, and any special talents or experiences that the student will bring to WPI. Because funding is limited, families who have the financial resources to fund the entire cost of attendance should not apply for financial aid. WPI maintains a needaware admissions process for international (nonimmigrant) applicants. It is possible to receive an award that is a combination of a meritbased scholarship and an international grant; however, WPI offers very few combined awards. In order to apply for an International Grant, students must complete the CSS Profile at the time of application. Working on Campus WPI allows international students to work parttime on campus. Positions are available in a variety of offices and services. The application process for many positions in competitive, and new students are encouraged to apply directly upon arrival at WPI. New positions are listed through our Student Employment website throughout the year. While these positions can help students with their expenses, it is important to note that international students are limited in the hours per week that they can work. Student employees will typically earn 1,500 to 2,500 in an academic year. Monthly Payment Plan Students and their families have an opportunity to utilize a monthly payment plan through our Bursars Office. There are no charges or interest beyond the application fee. Visit our Bursar's Office website for more information. Cooperative Education Program WPI offers a cooperative education program (coop) for students, including noncitizens, in good academic standing. Coop provides students with experience and career direction. The program makes students more aware of the daytoday operations of industry and exposes students to professional standards and methods used to accomplish objectives in a business environment. The professional skills and networks students develop are one reason coop often leads to permanent employment after graduation. On average, WPI students earn an average between 21,000  26,000, depending on the coop assignment. Students have the option of completing one or two coop assignments between the end of their sophomore year and beginning of their senior year. The assignment periods are January through August or May through December. The program has been designed for maximum flexibility so it can be responsive to each student's academic and financial needs. A position is not guaranteed, but every effort is made to identify as many opportunities as possible so that all interested students can participate in the program. We currently place approximately 95 of interested students. For more information please visit the Career Development Center website. Summer Internship Program WPI's Summer Internship Program serves the students of WPI as they explore career options, gain worldofwork experience, earn income and contribute to society during the summer months. Students typically find positions in and around the WorcesterBoston area. Salaries can vary greatly. For more information please visit the Career Development Center website . Loans Private Loans  WPI uses ELM SELECT as a tool to provide students and parents with information about alternativeprivate loans our students have used in the past. ELM SELECT allows you to compare several items such as loan rates, length of repayment, monthly payment amounts, etc. (The WPI Office of Financial Aid does not endorse or recommend a particular program.) Other Options Below is a list of resources and programs that may aid you in learning about additional grants, scholarships and loans. NAFSA provides a comprehensive overview of International Student Financial Aid options Canadian Student Loan Program serves Canadian citizens studying in the United States. FinAid , sponsored by the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators ( NASFAA ) is a comprehensive guide to financial aid eduPASS! The SmartStudent  Guide to Studying in the USA for international students. National Science Foundation Grants The College Board's Financial Aid Services Educators for Fair Choice maintains listings of scholarships available to undergraduate noncitizens, including undocumented students Macarthur Foundation Fellowship Office of the National Research Council allows you to search for the fellowships that are open to international students The Rotary Foundation provides academic year, multiyear and Cultural Scholarships to study abroad. The Organization of American States, an international organization based in Washington, DC offers, through the Rowe Fund program , interestfree loans to competent students from Latin American and Caribbean countries to help them finance their final two years of undergraduate studies. Financial Literacy WPI International Student and Scholars Office Employers  Partners Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right The Office of Corporate Partnerships at WPI organizes and delivers an array of services that cater to the needs of business partners. Through a holistic model and approach, our goal is to help businesses solve issues related to workforce and talent development, research, and product development, and to impact their social responsibility programs through philanthropic engagement. Blending these three core elements of university partnership strategies yields greater depth and breadth to organizational partnerships and increases visibility on campus with faculty and students. Strategic partnerships are built with us, growing partners dive deeper with us, and new partners explore opportunities with us. The corporate partnerships office is driven to support the success of our students and faculty while creating value for our external partners. Let's Connect Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Corporate Partnerships Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Employers  Partners Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Sponsor a Student Project Engineering Ambassadors Experiential PhD Corporate Education and Workforce Development Programs CONTACT Phone: 5088315831 corporatewpi.edu Recruiting  Workforce Development Corporate Education WPI's Online and Corporate Education team specializes in the learning needs of working professionals and is committed to helping working professionals achieve their education goals. Learn about our Online or Corporate programs. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Corporate Education Recruit Talent WPI alumni can be found across the globe as highly skilled STEM and business professionals, inspired humanist engineers, and impactful leaders of industry. Our alumni are highly knowledgeable, work effectively in teams, think creatively, understand their chosen fields, and are ready to make an impact on day one. Learn how to Recruit Talent at Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Recruit Talent Sponsor a Student Project Our distinct projectbased approach to education transforms our students into highly skilled, teamoriented, globally aware problem solvers, who are ready to dive right into your workplace and produce tangible results. Learn how to sponsor a student project and engage the fresh perspective of a dedicated student team and its expert faculty advisor. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Sponsor a Student Project Engineering Ambassadors WPIs Engineering Ambassadors program addresses the challenge companies have in recruiting diverse and talented worldclass engineers. Through the ambassador program, top undergraduate students majoring in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) fields are professionally polished to conduct high school outreach and handson programs to encourage young students on behalf of your company. Learn how to sponsor an Engineering Ambassador . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Engineering Ambassadors Corporate Education WPI's Online and Corporate Education team specializes in the learning needs of working professionals and is committed to helping working professionals achieve their education goals. Learn about our Online or Corporate programs. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Corporate Education Recruit Talent WPI alumni can be found across the globe as highly skilled STEM and business professionals, inspired humanist engineers, and impactful leaders of industry. Our alumni are highly knowledgeable, work effectively in teams, think creatively, understand their chosen fields, and are ready to make an impact on day one. Learn how to Recruit Talent at Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Recruit Talent Sponsor a Student Project Our distinct projectbased approach to education transforms our students into highly skilled, teamoriented, globally aware problem solvers, who are ready to dive right into your workplace and produce tangible results. Learn how to sponsor a student project and engage the fresh perspective of a dedicated student team and its expert faculty advisor. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Sponsor a Student Project Engineering Ambassadors WPIs Engineering Ambassadors program addresses the challenge companies have in recruiting diverse and talented worldclass engineers. Through the ambassador program, top undergraduate students majoring in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) fields are professionally polished to conduct high school outreach and handson programs to encourage young students on behalf of your company. Learn how to sponsor an Engineering Ambassador . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Engineering Ambassadors Corporate Education WPI's Online and Corporate Education team specializes in the learning needs of working professionals and is committed to helping working professionals achieve their education goals. Learn about our Online or Corporate programs. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Corporate Education Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Research, Technology  Innovation Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship WPI has a long history of innovation and inventions; in fact, our percentage of patents far outpaces many other universities our size . We can connect your company with opportunities to license and deploy innovations and intellectual property held by WPI faculty and students. This allows access to the latest technology for commercial gain and to be part of a community that supports big ideas. We offer various programs and resources for every kind of entrepreneur, including opportunities to engage with innovative and entrepreneurialminded WPIaffiliated startups or to coach, advise, and mentor budding entrepreneurs. Learn more about the Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Research at WPI WPI's more than 500 full and parttime faculty members are dedicated to using their talents, expertise, and intellectual curiosity to solve the most complex global challenges. Learn more about Research at WPI . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Research at WPI Core Research Facilities WPI offers stateoftheart research facilities and laboratories that are open to external users. Learn more to see how we can help to advance your idea. Explore our stateoftheart campus spaces . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Core Research Facilities Office of Sponsored Programs The Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) partners with WPI's faculty and staff throughout the life cycle of a sponsored research project. From assisting in proposal development and reviewing and submitting funding applications to negotiating and accepting awards and issuing subawards, OSP provides guidance throughout the award and interprets applicable regulatory requirements to ensure that research conducted is in compliance . Learn more about how OSP can take your project to the next level. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Office of Sponsored Programs Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship WPI has a long history of innovation and inventions; in fact, our percentage of patents far outpaces many other universities our size . We can connect your company with opportunities to license and deploy innovations and intellectual property held by WPI faculty and students. This allows access to the latest technology for commercial gain and to be part of a community that supports big ideas. We offer various programs and resources for every kind of entrepreneur, including opportunities to engage with innovative and entrepreneurialminded WPIaffiliated startups or to coach, advise, and mentor budding entrepreneurs. Learn more about the Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Research at WPI WPI's more than 500 full and parttime faculty members are dedicated to using their talents, expertise, and intellectual curiosity to solve the most complex global challenges. Learn more about Research at WPI . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Research at WPI Core Research Facilities WPI offers stateoftheart research facilities and laboratories that are open to external users. Learn more to see how we can help to advance your idea. Explore our stateoftheart campus spaces . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Core Research Facilities Office of Sponsored Programs The Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) partners with WPI's faculty and staff throughout the life cycle of a sponsored research project. From assisting in proposal development and reviewing and submitting funding applications to negotiating and accepting awards and issuing subawards, OSP provides guidance throughout the award and interprets applicable regulatory requirements to ensure that research conducted is in compliance . Learn more about how OSP can take your project to the next level. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Office of Sponsored Programs Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship WPI has a long history of innovation and inventions; in fact, our percentage of patents far outpaces many other universities our size . We can connect your company with opportunities to license and deploy innovations and intellectual property held by WPI faculty and students. This allows access to the latest technology for commercial gain and to be part of a community that supports big ideas. We offer various programs and resources for every kind of entrepreneur, including opportunities to engage with innovative and entrepreneurialminded WPIaffiliated startups or to coach, advise, and mentor budding entrepreneurs. Learn more about the Office of Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Community  Entrepreneurial Outreach Innovation  Entrepreneurship By working to integrate entrepreneurial principles across the university curriculum, WPI supports vital pathways to new venture formations. Be it in business, social or nonprofit arenas, our students are inspired and encouraged to engage in technologybased ventures and are wellprepared to support your organization in professional practice, innovation, and civic contribution. Learn more about IE at WPI . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Innovation  Entrepreneurship Government  Community Relations The Office of Government  Community Relations works to build and maintain mutually beneficial relationships between WPI and local, state, and federal governments, as well as the local Worcester community. The office is instrumental in obtaining research funding in areas of strategic importance to WPI and also provides students with opportunities to work in and contribute to the city. Learn more about the office . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Government  Community Relations Innovation  Entrepreneurship By working to integrate entrepreneurial principles across the university curriculum, WPI supports vital pathways to new venture formations. Be it in business, social or nonprofit arenas, our students are inspired and encouraged to engage in technologybased ventures and are wellprepared to support your organization in professional practice, innovation, and civic contribution. Learn more about IE at WPI . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Innovation  Entrepreneurship Government  Community Relations The Office of Government  Community Relations works to build and maintain mutually beneficial relationships between WPI and local, state, and federal governments, as well as the local Worcester community. The office is instrumental in obtaining research funding in areas of strategic importance to WPI and also provides students with opportunities to work in and contribute to the city. Learn more about the office . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Government  Community Relations Innovation  Entrepreneurship By working to integrate entrepreneurial principles across the university curriculum, WPI supports vital pathways to new venture formations. Be it in business, social or nonprofit arenas, our students are inspired and encouraged to engage in technologybased ventures and are wellprepared to support your organization in professional practice, innovation, and civic contribution. Learn more about IE at WPI . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Innovation  Entrepreneurship Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Philanthropy  Gifts in Kind Beyond These Towers "Beyond These Towers" is WPI's largest fundraising campaign yet. It's also the first such campaign to combine philanthropy and sponsored research. The theme of the campaign is a nod to the towers of WPIs first two buildings, enduring symbols of its guiding philosophy of theory and practice. Learn more about how "Beyond These Towers" will transform WPI. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Beyond These Towers Foundation Relations WPI's University Advancement team engages with business, foundation, and corporate philanthropists in diverse ways. Whether partnering on industryspecific scholarships or coordinating giftsinkind, we can work together to find the best opportunity to support corporate philanthropically. For corporate philanthropy, reach out to corporatewpi.edu . For individual philanthropy, reach out to givingwpi.edu . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Foundation Relations Beyond These Towers "Beyond These Towers" is WPI's largest fundraising campaign yet. It's also the first such campaign to combine philanthropy and sponsored research. The theme of the campaign is a nod to the towers of WPIs first two buildings, enduring symbols of its guiding philosophy of theory and practice. Learn more about how "Beyond These Towers" will transform WPI. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Beyond These Towers Foundation Relations WPI's University Advancement team engages with business, foundation, and corporate philanthropists in diverse ways. Whether partnering on industryspecific scholarships or coordinating giftsinkind, we can work together to find the best opportunity to support corporate philanthropically. For corporate philanthropy, reach out to corporatewpi.edu . For individual philanthropy, reach out to givingwpi.edu . Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Foundation Relations Beyond These Towers "Beyond These Towers" is WPI's largest fundraising campaign yet. It's also the first such campaign to combine philanthropy and sponsored research. The theme of the campaign is a nod to the towers of WPIs first two buildings, enduring symbols of its guiding philosophy of theory and practice. Learn more about how "Beyond These Towers" will transform WPI. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right Beyond These Towers Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Lets connect Power Systems Power systems is now one of the most dynamic industries in which to work. The use of renewable energy is on the rise; technological innovations are improving the power grid while also raising questions about safety and cybersecurity. With so much of the workforce now reaching the age of retirement and the evolution of energy policy, the world needs powersystems experts more than ever. WPIs online graduate programs in Power Systems prepare engineers for professional practice in the electric utility industry. We combine essential topics in power systems with technologyfocused business courses that empower graduates to improve energy delivery and meet the challenges of an evolving power grid. Advance your expertise in key topics including protective relaying, controls, and power transmission and gain practical experience that is immediately relevant for a career in the power industry. Program Highlights Curriculum grounded in fundamental and specialized topics in power engineering and enhanced with elective courses in management, science, and engineering. Program prepares students to implement and manage safer and more efficient energy systems, from designing more cost effective power delivery systems to reducing the frequency and severity of customer outages and reducing operational risk to employers. Courses taught by expert WPI faculty members who have practical experience in power systems engineering and continue to serve as consultants to leading corporations. Graduates often advance in their current companies, work as consultants, and are hired at leading organizations, including National Grid, Eversource Energy, and General Dynamics Electric Boat, among others. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Schools, Departments  Programs Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Power Systems Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Faculty  Staff CONTACT Phone: 5088315301 onlinewpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Facebook Icon of Facebook logo LinkedIn Icon of LinkedIn Logo Area of Study Certificate Master PhD Power Systems Engineering certificate Power Systems Engineering (MEng) master Power Systems Management certificate master These programs are offered 100 online, affording working professionals the flexibility to expand their knowledge base and skills while working. Degrees earned in an online program are identical to those earned on campus. Wherever you live, a WPI education in Power Systems is within reach. Where to Find Us Virtual Open House Learn from Industry Experts WPI students work closely with WPIs renowned Power Systems faculty: realworld, industry experts who enrich the curriculum with decades of experience. Read the faculty biographies Visit the digital content library for whitepapers, ebooks, webinars, and our blog. Access the Digital Content Library Got 7 minutes? Take this short survey and help improve the gradschoolresearch experience for you and your peers. Take the Survey Publications  Digital Content Read Securing the Grid: Today and Tomorrow to learn about the cybersecurity challenges facing the power industry. Download a copy of the whitepaper  View our complimentary webinar series, where you will learn about energy policy, future delivery, and best practices from our subject matter experts. Register to gain access to all three webinars. View the webinars From an Alumnus Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote I love the online delivery. With lectures and weekly selfpaced learning, I can complete a masters degree while maintaining my fulltime job, which can be very demanding with long hours and extensive travel. The instructors make themselves available to answer questions and provide highquality lecture and class materials to learn from. Beginning Quote Icon of beginning quote Ken Gross, WPI Power Systems Alumnus WPI Annual Energy Symposium Considering a career in the energy industry? Learn more about current technical and policy concerns and opportunities, meet some of the most influential individuals in the industry, and learn about the energy challenges facing our nation. We look forward to celebrating 10 years of this event when it is safe to do so. In the meantime, visit our Energy Symposium page to download content from past years! Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right View Content from past years WPI  EPCE Energy Education Program WPI and the Energy Providers Coalition for Education (EPCE) are partners in providing quality online education to the energy industry. If you work for an organization that is a member of EPCE, you receive a 10 discount on your online WPI tuition. Contact EPCE to determine if you qualify. News Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More News WPI Experts Weigh in on Tragic Wildfires August 30, 2023 LISTEN: Play Button Icon of a play button Pause Icon of pause button 00:00  09:03 Your browser does not support the audio element. WPI Welcomes 19 New Faculty Members October 20, 2020 Media Coverage Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right See More Media Coverage Online Engineering Programs Online Power Systems Engineering Degree Programs: Ask the Expert. The website Online Engineering Programs interviewed Edvina Uzunovic, associate director of power systems engineering and assistant teaching professor, for an article that explores the future of power systems engineering, the field's importance, and offers advice to prospective students considering online programs in the field, including WPI's master's in Power Systems Engineering online, master's in Power Systems Management online, and the online graduate certificate in power systems. Associated Press Bare electrical wire and leaning poles on Maui were possible cause of deadly fires Michael Ahern, instructor, and recently retired Director of Power Systems at WPI, provided analysis for an Associated Press report on the presence of uninsulated electrical wires in Maui before the devastating wildfires. The reporting on power line infrastructure and questions about the source of the fires was republished by hundreds of outlets including the Los Angeles Times, PBS NewsHour, Chicago Tribune, Yahoo! News, The Atlanta JournalConstitution, and Politico. Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Faculty Advising Resources To assist faculty in their critical role as Academic Advisors, the Committee on Advising and Student Life has compiled the following set of resources. As always, the Office of Academic Advising is happy to answer questions and provide additional support. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Faculty Advising Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Faculty Advising Resources Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Facebook Icon of Facebook logo Tracking Sheets : There is a tracking sheet for each major on campus. Students should use these in planning out their courses  and advisors can find them a great help as well. These are updated every year, so there may be multiple available sheets. The student and faculty member should use the appropriate sheet for when the student entered WPI. HUA Requirement (PDF) : The Humanities and Arts Requirement brochure helps students understand the HUA requirement. The brochure provides a clear description of the requirement and examples of different ways to fulfill it. Social Science Requirement (PDF) : This will help students understand and make the most of their social science requirement. It provides information on how to pursue a social science minor. Physical Education and Wellness Requirement : All WPI undergraduates must complete four 112 credit activities in physical education in order to graduate. Students are encouraged to complete this graduation requirement before their senior year. Students are able to complete these activities through PE classes, club andor varsity sport participation. Career Outlooks: The CDC provides resources and support to students on major selection, resumeCV writing, internshipcoop and job search strategies, interviewing skillsmock interviews, graduate school assistance, career advising, job offer evaluation and negotiation skills, and more! Project Opportunities : Students frequently need support and advice in identifying their HUA, IQP, and MQP project opportunities and this database provides a listing of available project opportunities. Note that students wishing to fulfill the IQP at one of WPIs Global Project Centers must apply by A term of their sophomore year. Research Opportunities : Students are often interested in participating in a research opportunity during their time at WPI. This website will provide information with how students can explore those opportunities as an undergraduate. Im Concerned about a Student : In the course of your meeting with advisees, you may hear some things that cause you to worry about a student. You can use this form to put your concerns before a body of professionals who will further explore the situation and develop a plan to help and support the student and our campus. International Student Support: International Student and Scholars Office offers a variety of services and advice specific to international students including visas, reduced course loads, work authorization, taxes, etc. Merit Pages Student Achievement Contribution Form : Know a student or students who have accomplished something noteworthy? Share this accomplishment on this form. The information will post to the students Merit page that can be shared across the web. Office of the Provost Faculty Directory Faculty Resources Academic Advising Services Academic Integrity The Importance of Academic Integrity Academic integrity speaks directly to student honesty, responsibility and respect for scholarship. Academic assignments and tests help students learn course content, while grades show how fully this goal is achieved. Coursework and associated grades should be the result of the student's own understanding of academic content, as well as demonstrated effort and achievement. How does WPI support Academic Integrity? As a community of scholars, WPI prides itself on maintaining the highest level of academic integrity. WPI articulates this core value through the Student Code of Conduct . Students, faculty and administrative staff are expected to be familiar with the tenets of the Academic Honesty Policy as well as with the associated procedures for determining and responding to acts of academic dishonesty. Toward this end, the Dean of Students Office , which is charged with developing and articulating policies and procedures associated with WPI's conduct system, has developed this web site as a resource for faculty and students to: Learn about What Constitutes Academic Dishonesty ; Look at Academic Integrity Resolution Forms and Faculty Resources Review Academic Integrity Student Resources Consider Practices that Discourage Academic Dishonesty in the Classroom . This webpage adapts information from the University of Oklahoma, Norman Campus, Harvard University, and other colleges and universities. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Policies Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Academic Integrity Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Student Resources Academic Integrity Report Academic Coaching for Graduate Students Request Information Apply Academic Life Coaching is a supportive relationship for graduate students to enhance their development as scholars. Coaching is a selfdirected endeavor focused on your goals, your development, and your ways of doing things. You will not be told what your goals should be or how to achieve them. Rather, your Coach will partner with you to help you get creative, plan action steps, and make habitual change. Coaching is available free of charge for graduate students at WPI. Site Menu Menu Icon of three lines stacked on top of eachother Sidebar Menu Chev Down Icon of hollow arrow pointing down Arrow Left Icon of arrow pointing left Graduate Student Experience Chev Up Icon of hollow arrow pointing up Academic Coaching CONTACT Location: 60 Prescott Street (Gateway Park I) Phone: (508) 8315301 gradwpi.edu Twitter Icon of Twitter Logo Instagram Icon of Instagram symbol Facebook Icon of Facebook logo LinkedIn Icon of LinkedIn Logo Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) What are common topics of focus in Coaching? The most common topics include themes of procrastination, imposter phenomenon, time management, worklife balance, wellness, life aspirations, career exploration, milestone completion, research habits, and professional relationshipsnetworking. Most topics that are relevant to your functioning as a graduate student are fair to bring up in coaching. What if I am questioning whether to leave WPI or switch degrees? Can I still use coaching services? Absolutely! These kinds of complex decisions are excellent topics to focus on. Coaches do not have a vested interest in convincing you one way or another in these decisions. Are topics of discussion kept private? Yes, with reasonable exceptions: Your Coach may obscure your identity and discuss your case with other staff, such as a supervisor or peer, for the sake of the coaches development. Your coach may exercise their best judgement to identify you in discussing your case with other staff when there is a legitimate educational reason to do so. Your coach will not discuss your situation with your faculty members without first asking your permission, excluding extraordinary circumstances. Coaches are employees of the University and thus are obliged to report knowledge of harm or discrimination relating to protected class, for example in cases of sexual misconduct, to the Title IX office or the Dean of Students office. How is Academic Life Coaching different from mentorship? Coaches focus on your development with a particular focus on your life goals and aspirations. Coaches are rarely experts in the topic of focus and instead rely on you as the expert of your own life. Mentorship is similar in many respects but assumes that the mentor holds expertise in the area of focus. For example, a Mentor might be a professional who is further along in the career path that you are pursuing. It can be beneficial to have both coach and mentor figures. How is working with a Coach different from working with a Therapist or Counselor? Therapists and Counselors have expertise in mental healthcare. Coaches do not. While coaching is focused on your development as a whole person, it is not a substitute for working with a clinician when you need clinical support. For some people, coaching can be a complement to clinical work by supporting the maintenance of routine wellness habits. For other people it can be counterproductive or even harmful, analogous to poking an unhealed wound. It is best to discuss boundaries with your coach if you have concerns. Logistics of Academic Coaching You will start with an initial meeting to discuss your goals and envision your future. We will go over how coaching works in more detail in that conversation (bring your questions). In subsequent meetings, we will revisit your goals and explore how they are showing up in your life recently. Coaching ought to be a neutral space to explore how you are making progress and how you are getting stuck without judgement. Coaching sessions typically conclude with a discussion about your intended action steps. These are coconstructed between coach and student and emphasize habitual changes to everyday routines, though onetime actions are also appropriate. We will revisit these actions in future sessions to aid your selfaccountability. Coaching is an iterative process. It tends to work best when you meet with your coach on a consistent basis over the course of a semester, typically every 1 to 4 weeks. This allows us to notice patterns together so you can better understand your habits and make changes to them. You can pause and restart coaching whenever you need to throughout your time at WPI. Get started today. Sign Up for Academic Coaching What our students are saying A big thank you to you for helping me get here, guiding me throughout the previous semester, and always trusting and encouraging me through the process. It wouldnt have been possible without you! Im having a great time and benefiting tremendously. To have someone else in my corner, who is a stable fixture in my life is so important. Sometimes Im not sure what were going to talk about in session, but I always end up leaving with a good message and action items as necessary. I also am glad that I can share basically anything, even if what I share is outside our scope, I can still say it and be heard and not judged. Honestly, every student needs this. Every student on this campus. Every student should have access to... something consistent they can have throughout their tenure. Thank you for offering this service. It has honestly been too valuable to put into words here. The discussion about PhD roadmap was very useful for me to understand the requirement and have better understanding of the process. I left each academic coaching session with action items to help me in my work and mindset. Very friendly and cared about my progress and growth and gave constructive feedback. Brendan is always supportive, and coaching has been a really positive experience for me and made me more aware of my feelings and actions. It was a more holistic approach to address balance with academic work and life...I also believe it fills a gap in the type of student services provided. In my experience, coaching challenged me to rethink behavior patterns, offered me a space to be completely vulnerable and expose things Im not good at and that I wish to improve. A big thank you to you for helping me get here, guiding me throughout the previous semester, and always trusting and encouraging me through the process. It wouldnt have been possible without you! Im having a great time and benefiting tremendously. To have someone else in my corner, who is a stable fixture in my life is so important. Sometimes Im not sure what were going to talk about in session, but I always end up leaving with a good message and action items as necessary. I also am glad that I can share basically anything, even if what I share is outside our scope, I can still say it and be heard and not judged. Honestly, every student needs this. Every student on this campus. Every student should have access to... something consistent they can have throughout their tenure. Thank you for offering this service. It has honestly been too valuable to put into words here. The discussion about PhD roadmap was very useful for me to understand the requirement and have better understanding of the process. I left each academic coaching session with action items to help me in my work and mindset. Very friendly and cared about my progress and growth and gave constructive feedback. Brendan is always supportive, and coaching has been a really positive experience for me and made me more aware of my feelings and actions. It was a more holistic approach to address balance with academic work and life...I also believe it fills a gap in the type of student services provided. In my experience, coaching challenged me to rethink behavior patterns, offered me a space to be completely vulnerable and expose things Im not good at and that I wish to improve. A big thank you to you for helping me get here, guiding me throughout the previous semester, and always trusting and encouraging me through the process. It wouldnt have been possible without you! Previous Chev Left Icon of hollow arrow pointing left Next Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Meet the Coaches Lori KendallTaylor Senior Assistant Director, Student Success, Graduate  Professional Studies Email: ltaylorwpi.edu Phone: 1 (508) 8315000 x6532 Once you begin your journey, your Student Success Manager will remain with you throughout the duration of your program and work closely with you to ensure you are provided with all the information and tools needed for your program. Lori works with the following programs: Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, and Robotics Engineering.In addition, Lori is an Academic Life Coach for masters and PhD students in all programs helping them to set goals, plan action steps, and make habitual changes. Chev Right Icon of hollow arrow pointing right Arrow Right Icon of arrow pointing right view profile